  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)





              Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)





Applicable to:
1. Licensed banks
2. Licensed investment banks
3. Licensed Islamic banks
4. Licensed life insurers
5. Licensed family takaful operators
6. Prescribed development financial institutions
7. Licensed money services businesses
8. Approved issuers of designated payment instruments and designated Islamic payment
   instruments


Issued on: 15 April 2024                                 BNM/RH/PD 030-16
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

                      TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Part A    Overview ................................................................................................. 1
   1           Introduction .......................................................................................... 1
   2            Applicability .......................................................................................... 1
   3          Legal provisions ................................................................................... 1
   4           Effective date ....................................................................................... 2
   5           Interpretation ........................................................................................ 2
   6          Related legal instruments and policy documents ................................. 4
   7           Policy documents superseded ............................................................. 5

 PART B   POLICY REQUIREMENTS ...................................................................... 6
   8        e-KYC implementation ......................................................................... 6
   9          Reporting requirements ..................................................................... 12

 PART C  REGULATORY PROCESS .................................................................... 13
   10          Notification for licensed persons and prescribed development financial
                  institutions .......................................................................................... 13
   11         Approval for licensed money services businesses ............................. 14
   12              Enforcement....................................................................................... 14

 APPENDICES ........................................................................................................... 15
   Appendix 1: Examples of verification methods to establish business legitimacy .. 15
   Appendix 2: False Acceptance Rate and sampling ............................................... 16
   Appendix 3: Minimum scope and criteria for external independent assessment ... 20
   Appendix 4: e-KYC safeguards to be adopted by financial institutions offering
               higher risk financial products ............................................................. 24
   Appendix 5: Information required for submission .................................................. 27
   Appendix 6: Submission instructions ………………………………………………... 28





Issued on: 15 April 2024                                 BNM/RH/PD 030-16
                                                                    Page 1 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

PART A   OVERVIEW
1     Introduction

1.1   Supported by further technological advancements and introduction of electronic
      Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC) solutions for the financial sector, digitalisation of
       the  customer  identification and  verification  processes has become an
       increasingly prominent enabler in the onboarding process for financial services.

1.2   Growing adoption and understanding of e-KYC solutions in the financial sector
        call for enhancements to existing requirements to ensure e-KYC solutions
      continue to remain relevant, robust and reliable. This includes expanding the
      scope of e-KYC applications to cover both individuals and legal persons,
       providing guidance on e-KYC solutions that can cater to the unbanked, while
      ensuring uncompromised accuracy in customer identification and verification.

1.3   This document sets out the minimum requirements and standards that a
       financial institution, as defined in paragraph 5.2, must observe in implementing
     e-KYC for the on-boarding of individuals and legal persons. The requirements
       outlined in this policy document are aimed at -
          (i)   Enabling safe and secure application of e-KYC technology in the financial
             sector;
           (ii)   Facilitating Bank Negara Malaysia’s (the Bank’s) continued ability to carry
            out effective supervisory oversight of financial institutions; and
            (iii)  Ensuring  effective  anti-money  laundering,  countering  financing  of
            terrorism and countering proliferation financing (AML/CFT/CPF) control
          measures.
2     Applicability

2.1   This document is applicable to all financial institutions as defined in paragraph
       5.2 and any other institution that may be specified by the Bank.

2.2   This policy document shall not apply to agent banking channels governed under
       the Agent Banking Policy Document dated 30 June 2022.
3     Legal provisions

3.1   This policy document is issued pursuant to-
          (i)   sections 47(1) and 261(1) of the Financial Services Act 2013 (FSA);
           (ii)   sections 57(1) and 272 of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 (IFSA);
            (iii)  sections 41(1),126 and 123A of the Development Financial Institutions Act
          2002 (DFIA);
         (iv)  sections 74 of the Money Services Business Act 2011 (MSBA); and
        (v)   sections 16 and 83  of  the Anti-Money Laundering,  Anti-Terrorism
           Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001 (AMLA).
                                                                    Page 2 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

4     Effective date

4.1   This Policy Document comes into effect on 15 April 2024.
5     Interpretation

5.1   The terms and expressions in this Policy Document shall have the same
     meaning assigned to them in the FSA, IFSA, DFIA, AMLA and MSBA unless
      otherwise stated.

5.2   For the purposes of this Policy Document-

     “S” denotes a standard, an obligation, a requirement, specification, direction,
       condition and any interpretative, supplemental and transitional provisions that
      must be complied with. Non-compliance may result in enforcement action.

      “G” denotes guidance which may consist of statements or information intended
       to promote common understanding and advice or recommendations that are
      encouraged to be adopted.

      “authorised person” in the context of a business relationship with a financial
        institution, refers to a natural person appointed in writing1 by a legal person to
      operate and maintain an account with a financial institution including to open,
       close and give any instruction for the conduct of financial transactions in the
      account on behalf of the legal person.

       “beneficial owner” in the context of a legal person, refers to the natural
       person(s) who ultimately owns or controls a customer and/or the natural person
     on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted. It also includes those natural
      persons who exercise ultimate effective control over a legal person. Only a
       natural person can be an ultimate beneficial owner, and more than one natural
      person can be the ultimate beneficial owner of a given legal person.

      Reference to “ultimately owns or control” or “ultimate effective control” refers to
       situations  in which ownership or control  is exercised through a chain of
      ownership or by means of control other than direct control.

       In insurance and takaful sectors, this also refers to any natural person(s) who
       ultimately owns or controls a beneficiary, as specified  in the Anti-Money
      Laundering,  Countering  Financing  of  Terrorism,  Countering  Proliferation
      Financing  and  Targeted  Financial  Sanctions  for  Financial  Institutions
     (AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs) policy document.

      “biometric” refers to a unique physical feature of a person based on a certain
      aspect of the person’s biology. These include facial features, fingerprints or
        retinal patterns.



1 By means of a letter of authority or directors’ resolution or by electronic means, as permitted under the legal
person’s constitution. For avoidance of doubt, requirements relating to such electronic means can be referred in
paragraph 8.16 of this policy document.
                                                                    Page 3 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

     “Board” in relation to a company, refers to-
          (i)   directors of the company who number not less than the required quorum
            acting as a board of directors; or
           (ii)     if the company has only one director, that director.

     “customer” refers to both account holder and non-account holder. The term
       also refers to a client.

      For the life insurance and family takaful sector, “customer” refers to parties
       related to an insurance/takaful contract including potential parties such as the
       proposer/policyholder/policy   owner,   payor,   assignee  and  company
       representative, but does not include insurance agent.

       In the case of group policies, “customer” refers to the master policy holder, that
         is, the owner of the master policy issued or intended to be issued.

       In addition, for money services business and designated payment instruments,
      “customer” refers to a person for whom the licensee or approved issuer of
      designated payment instruments undertakes or intends to undertake business
       relations.

     Where  the  term  “customer”  is  broadly used  in  this  policy document,
      requirements shall apply to both individual and legal person.

      “electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)” means establishing business
       relationships and conducting customer due diligence (CDD) 2 by way  of
       electronic means, including online channel and mobile channels.

       “financial institution” refers to-
          (i)   a licensed bank, investment bank and life insurer under the FSA;
           (ii)  a licensed Islamic bank and licensed family takaful operator under the
           IFSA;
           (iii)  a prescribed development financial institution under the DFIA;
         (iv)  an approved issuer of designated payment instruments under the FSA;
        (v)  an approved issuer of designated Islamic payment instruments under the
           IFSA; and
         (vi)  a licensed money services business under the MSBA.

      “False Negative” refers to identification and verification cases processed
      under e-KYC solutions in which the solution falsely rejected and did not verify
     an identity when it should have been accepted. These include cases of genuine
        identities or documents that were falsely rejected.





2 This includes the cases of standard and simplified CDD on individuals, legal persons and beneficiaries as
specified under the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs policy document.
                                                                    Page 4 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

      “False Positive” refers to identification and verification cases processed under
     e-KYC solutions in which the solution accepted and verified an identity when
       said identity should have been rejected. These include cases of false or unclear
        identities, forged or tampered documents and unclear images that were falsely
      accepted.

      “individual” refers to a natural person.

       “legal person” means a legal person as specified under paragraph 6.2 of the
     AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs policy document. It refers to any entity other
      than a natural person that can establish a permanent customer relationship with
      a reporting institution or otherwise own property. This includes companies,
      bodies   corporate,  government-linked  companies  (GLC),  foundations,
       partnerships, or associations and other similar entities.

    GLC refers to an entity where the government is the majority shareholder or
       single largest shareholder and/or has the ability to exercise and influence major
       decisions such as appointment of board members and senior management.

      “the Bank” means Bank Negara Malaysia.

      “True Positive” refers to identification and verification cases processed under
     e-KYC solutions in which the solution rightly accepted and verified an identity.
     These include cases of genuine identities or documents that were rightly
      accepted.

      “True Negative” refers to identification and verification cases processed under
     e-KYC solutions in which the solution rightly rejected and did not verify an
        identity. These include cases of false or unclear identities, forged or tampered
      documents and unclear images that were rightly rejected:

6     Related legal instruments and policy documents

6.1   Where applicable, this policy document must be read together with any relevant
       legal instruments, policy documents, guidelines, circulars, and supplementary
      documents issued by the Bank, in particular -
          (i)   Anti-Money Laundering, Countering Financing of Terrorism, Countering
             Proliferation Financing and Targeted Financial Sanctions for Financial
             Institutions (AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs) policy document issued on 5
           February 2024;
           (ii)   Risk Management in Technology (RMiT) dated 1 June 2023;
            (iii)  Outsourcing dated 23 October 2019;
         (iv)  Management of Customer Information and Permitted Disclosures dated 3
             April 2023;
        (v)   Introduction of New Products dated 7 March 2014; and
         (vi)  Introduction of New Products by Insurers and Takaful Operators dated 15
         May 2015.
                                                                    Page 5 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

6.2   For avoidance of doubt, where a financial institution is subjected to more than
     one policy document relating to e-KYC or non-face-to-face (FTF) requirements,
      the more stringent requirement shall apply.

7     Policy documents superseded

7.1   This policy document supersedes the Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)
       policy document issued on 30 June 2020.
                                                                       Page 6 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

   PART B    POLICY REQUIREMENTS
   8    e-KYC implementation

   Role and responsibility of the Board

S  8.1  A financial institution shall obtain Board approval on the overall risk appetite
        and  internal framework governing the implementation of e-KYC  for both
           individuals and legal persons. The framework shall address-
                   i.     high  risk or material risk scenarios that require subsequent Board
                 approval;
                    ii.     variations or exceptions to existing e-KYC related products or methods
                  that require subsequent Board approval;
                    iii.     internal processes, mitigating controls and triggers for escalation to the
              Board where there may be potential concern on the effectiveness of the
             e-KYC solution performance and related processes (e.g., change of
                technology provider, review of e-KYC results, sufficiency of reporting);
              and
              iv.    other instances that require Board approval.

S  8.2   The Board of financial institutions shall be responsible for ensuring satisfactory
         measures are undertaken by the financial institution such that an appropriate
           level of performance of the e-KYC solution is maintained at all times. Such
            responsibilities of the Board should include but are not limited to ensuring
         improvements are undertaken by the financial institution to enhance the e-KYC
           solution in a regular and timely manner, and that the Board is satisfied that the
           level of performance of the e-KYC solution does not undermine the integrity of
          the identification and verification process.

S  8.3   The Board  of a  financial  institution  shall  set and ensure  the  effective
          implementation of appropriate policies and procedures to address any risks
          associated with the implementation of e-KYC. These include operational,
           information  technology  (IT) and money  laundering,  terrorism  financing,
            proliferation financing (ML/TF/PF) and fraud risks.

           Identification and verification (IDV) of customers through e-KYC

         A. General requirements

S  8.4    In line with requirements under the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs policy
         document, a financial institution shall ensure and be able to demonstrate on a
          continuing basis that appropriate measures for the identification and verification
           of a customer’s identity through e-KYC are secure and effective. Measures for
            identification and verification shall be proportionate to the risk dimensions of e-
        KYC.

G  8.5    In relation to paragraph 8.4, where reference is made to face-to-face processes,
            this should mainly serve as guidance on the minimum expected baseline.
                                                                       Page 7 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

S  8.6   For the money services business sector,  in meeting requirements under
         paragraph 8.4 of this policy document, money services businesses shall also
         comply with IDV requirements for new customers when establishing business
           relationships through e-KYC under the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for Financial
            Institutions Policy Document.

S  8.7  A financial institution shall adopt an appropriate combination of authentication
           factors when establishing measures to verify the identity of a customer being
         on-boarded through e-KYC. The strength and combination of the authentication
           factors  shall be commensurate  to  the  risks  associated  with  inaccurate
            identification for a particular product or service.

G  8.8    In respect of paragraph 8.7, a financial institution may give regard to the key
          basic authentication factors, which namely and amongst others include:
                (i)    something the customer possesses (e.g. national identity document
               such as an identity card, registered mobile number, company’s certificate
                  of incorporation);
                 (ii)    something  the  customer knows  (e.g.  PIN,  personal  information,
                 transaction history); and
                  (iii)    in the case of individuals, something the customer is (e.g. biometric
                   characteristics).
        An e-KYC solution that depends on more than one factor is typically more
              difficult to compromise than a single factor system.

S  8.9    In verifying the identity of an individual or beneficial owner under paragraphs
          8.10 and 8.13 of this policy document and as required under the AML/CFT/CPF
        and TFS for FIs policy document, financial institutions shall:
                     (i) be satisfied with the identity of the individual or the beneficial owner
                through reliable and independent documentation, electronic data or any
                 other measures that the financial institution deems necessary;
                       (ii) be satisfied with the veracity of information referred to in paragraph 8.9
                          (i) when verifying the identity of the individual or beneficial owner; and
                        (iii) ensure that documents, data or information collected is kept up-to-date
              and relevant.

         B. IDV through e-KYC for individuals

G  8.10  In identifying and verifying an individual’s identity through e-KYC as required
         under paragraph 8.4 of this policy document and the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS
            for FIs policy document, a financial  institution may undertake measures,
           including but not limited to the following-
                (i)    Document verification – i.e., ensuring that the government issued ID to
                support e-KYC customer verification is authentic by utilising appropriate
                 fraud detection mechanisms;
                 (ii)    Biometric matching – i.e., verifying the customer against a government
                issued ID3 by utilising biometric technology; and/or




      3 i.e, National Registration Identity Card (NRIC), passport, or any other official documents.
                                                                       Page 8 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

                  (iii)   Liveness detection – i.e, ensuring the customer is a live subject and not
              an impersonator (e.g. through use of photos, videos, synthetic human
                face masks4) by utilising liveness detection.

S  8.11  For the money services business sector,  in meeting requirements under
         paragraph 8.10 of this policy document, money services businesses shall also
         comply with IDV requirements for individuals under the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS
            for FIs Policy Document.

         C. IDV through e-KYC for legal person5

G  8.12 A financial institution may implement e-KYC to identify and verify legal persons,
          subject  to meeting  the  requirements  in  this  policy document and  the
          requirements for legal persons specified under the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for
          FIs policy document6 on CDD for legal persons.

S  8.13  When implementing e-KYC for legal persons, a financial institution shall have
        due regard to the areas listed as CDD requirements for legal persons in the
        AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs Policy Document. This includes but are not
           limited to:
                (i)     identification and verification of a legal person as an entity to establish
                 the existence of a legitimate business.
                 (ii)     identification and verification of the authorised person appointed by the
                  legal person to establish business relations and conduct transactions on
                 behalf of the legal person; and
                  (iii)    identification and reasonable measures for verification of beneficial
               owners7 of the legal person.

G  8.14  In relation to paragraph 8.13 (i), financial institutions may wish to undertake one
           or more verification methods to establish business legitimacy, such as but not
           limited to those specified under Appendix 1.

S  8.15  For the money services business sector,  in meeting requirements under
         paragraph 8.13 (i) -  (ii) and paragraph 8.14 of this policy document, money
          services businesses shall also comply with IDV requirements for legal persons,
               i.e.,   corporate  customers  and   the   authorised  person  under   the
        AML/CFT/CPF/CPF and TFS for FIs Policy Document, as may be amended by
          the Bank from time to time.





      4 Synthetic human face masks are designed to impersonate real human faces and made from materials such as
      silicone or otherwise. For purposes of e-KYC, such masks may be used to defraud facial recognition software.
      5 For avoidance of doubt, a sole proprietor is not deemed as legal person under this policy document. Accordingly,
     the on-boarding of sole proprietors through e-KYC is subject to e-KYC process for individual as specified under
     paragraph 8.10.
      6 In particular, requirements relating to legal persons as well as clubs, societies and charities contained within
     paragraphs 14A.9, 14B.11, 14C.10 and 14D.9 of the AML/CFT/CPF and TFs for FIs Policy Document.
      7 As required under paragraphs 14A.9.6, 14B.11.12, 14C.10.7 and 14D.9.6 of the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs
      policy document.
                                                                       Page 9 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

S  8.16  In relation to paragraph 8.13 (ii), where the identification and verification of the
          authorised person is conducted via electronic means, a financial institution shall
         ensure that –
                (i)     electronic communication or documents that capture collective decision
              making by the directors of the legal person (e.g. digital forms of Directors
                Resolution or Letter of Authority) to appoint the authorised person and
                  establish business relations are maintained in accordance with relevant
                record keeping requirements as specified under paragraph 24 of the
             AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs Policy Document;
                 (ii)    such electronic means adopted to identify and verify the authorised
               person are within the legal person’s constitution or any other document
               which sets out the powers of the legal person; and
                  (iii)    the authorised person is identified and verified through e-KYC as an
                   individual, having due regard to the measures listed under paragraph
                8.10 of this policy document.

G  8.17  In respect of paragraph 8.16 (i), such electronic means to capture collective
          decision making by the directors of the legal person on the appointment of the
          authorised person may include but are not limited to the following:
                (i)      utilising electronic technologies that identify and verify the directors, and
                subsequently   capture   evidence   of   directors’   consent   (e.g.
                  audited/circulated email  trails, providing agreement or disagreement
                through personal secure authentication links for directors to consent,
                 video-conferencing to verify consent, digital signatures, use of secure
                  electronic voting platforms, etc); and/or
                 (ii)    using third parties (e.g. Digital Company Secretaries) that may provide
                 confirmation on the legitimacy of relevant evidence such as the Directors
                Resolution or Letter of Authority.

S  8.18 A financial institution shall undertake their own risk assessment to clearly define
         parameters for classifying potential legal persons that are not allowed to
           establish business relations through e-KYC.

         Ensuring effective e-KYC implementation

G  8.19  e-KYC solutions may utilise artificial intelligence, machine learning or other
         forms of predictive algorithms to ensure accurate identification and verification.
          This may result in automation of the decision-making process for customer on-
          boarding, thus reducing the need for human intervention.

S  8.20  Where the decision to verify a customer’s identity through e-KYC is automated
           with the use of  artificial intelligence, machine learning or other forms of
           predictive algorithms, whether in whole or in part, a financial institution shall
         ensure  that  the e-KYC  solution  is  continuously  capable  of  accurately
           distinguishing between genuine and non-genuine cases  of customer on-
          boarding.
                                                                       Page 10 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

S  8.21  For the purposes of paragraph 8.20, in ensuring accuracy of the e-KYC solution,
         a financial institution shall take steps to minimise the False Acceptance Rates
          (FAR),   defined as          𝐹𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒 𝑃𝑜𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒       𝑥 100 .  In  measuring and
                                          (𝐹𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒 𝑃𝑜𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 + 𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑒 𝑁𝑒𝑔𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒)
          assessing the FAR, a financial institution shall observe the considerations and
          requirements listed in Appendix 28.

S  8.22  Financial institutions shall ensure that the technology provider appointed to
          provide the e-KYC solution conducts the following:
                (i)    Ensure that the e-KYC solution, encompassing the three (3) e-KYC
              modules namely document verification, biometric matching and liveness
                 detection as referenced in paragraph 8.10, has been assessed by a
                  credible9 external independent assessor in accordance with the scope
              and criteria as provided in Appendix 3. This includes ensuring that the
                technology provider has put measures in place to address the gaps or
              weaknesses identified from such assessment in a timely manner;
                 (ii)   Ensure that the relevant  certification(s)  is obtained  for the various
              modules under e-KYC solution, where such certification is available10.

S  8.23  Financial  institutions  that have  yet  to implement e-KYC  (i.e.  first-time
          implementation) or wish to change the e-KYC solution or technology provider
         used are required to ensure the following:
                (i)     Financial  institutions must perform due diligence on the  identified
                technology provider and the e-KYC solution. The due diligence, which
              must be validated by an independent party, shall include the following:
                  a.    Assessment whether the technology provider has a good track
                        record, experience and expertise in offering solutions involving
                       regulated entities and products; and
                  b.    Assessment of the e-KYC solution’s technical capabilities (e.g.
                      parameters, methodology of models used).
                 (ii)    Prior to implementing the e-KYC solution, financial institutions shall fulfil
                 the requirements in paragraph 8.2211.

S  8.24  Financial institutions shall review or revalidate requirements under paragraph
          8.22 for continued relevance at least once every three (3) years, or where there
          are any material changes to the e-KYC solution.





      8 For avoidance of doubt, requirements for FAR within this policy document do not apply to e-KYC solutions where
      verification of customer identity is automated without the use of artificial intelligence, machine learning or other
      similar forms of predictive algorithms.
      9 Credible external independent assessor refers to an assessor who has the capability and expertise in conducting
    assessments on identity verification solutions.
      10 The modules are biometric matching/facial recognition, liveness test and ID verification. For example, ISO 19794-
    5 for facial recognition and ISO 30107-3 for liveness test (presentation attack detection) module.
      11 This requirement must be completed prior to implementation of the e-KYC solution unless:
               (i)  Such assessment has already been conducted by the technology provider within the past two (2) years;
              or
                (ii) Where the technology provider has experience in applying the e-KYC solution effectively for other financial
                institutions and has established a good track record, this requirement may be completed no later than one
                (1) year from the date of the financial institution’s e-KYC implementation.
                                                                       Page 11 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

S  8.25  Notwithstanding requirements under paragraphs 8.22 and 8.23, to ensure an
           effective overall implementation of e-KYC, financial institutions shall conduct an
         independent  assessment  on  the  financial  institution’s own  processes,
         procedures and controls prior to first-time implementation of an e-KYC solution
        and undertake a review of the independent assessment on a regular basis, as
       may be determined by  the  financial  institution based on  its own  risk
         assessment.

         Reliance on human representatives

G  8.26  Notwithstanding paragraphs 8.19 to 8.21, a financial  institution may also
          perform e-KYC where identification and verification is conducted solely by a
        human representative. This includes cases where the decision to verify a
         customer is conducted by a financial institution representative, intermediary or
          insurance agent, with the assistance of electronic means such as video calls
          using mobile devices.

G  8.27  In contrast with e-KYC solutions under paragraphs 8.19 to 8.21 that utilise both
         machine and human 12 capabilities, e-KYC performed solely by a human
          representative through electronic means may involve a lower level of identity
         assurance due to human limitations and thus may not be suitable for  all
          circumstances.

S  8.28  Where the decision to verify a customer’s identity through e-KYC is conducted
           solely by a human representative, a financial institution shall give due regard to
           situations where there  is potential for higher risk of misidentification and
           establish internal safeguard measures to address this risk.

         Addressing ongoing vulnerabilities

S  8.29  A financial institution shall continuously monitor, identify and address potential
            vulnerabilities13 in the e-KYC solution. Where potential vulnerabilities in the e-
       KYC solution are detected, a financial institution shall identify and adopt
         immediate mitigation measures as necessary, including for higher risk products.

S  8.30   In respect of paragraph 8.29, actions to address potential vulnerabilities shall
           include:
                (i)    Conducting reviews on the e-KYC solution and, where applicable,
                 submitting periodical feedback to technology providers with the aim of
                improving effectiveness of the underlying technology used for customer
                   identification and verification; and
                 (ii)    Risk considerations, trigger mechanisms and rectification measures as
                    listed in Appendix 2.





      12 By virtue of audits that are conducted under Appendix 2.
      13 Potential vulnerabilities include exposures to IT, operational and ML/TF/PF related risks.
                                                                       Page 12 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

          Additional safeguards to facilitate deployment

G  8.31  The availability of data is an important factor in the effectiveness of e-KYC
           solutions for identification and verification.

S  8.32  Where there are limited data points to determine accuracy of the e-KYC solution
            in the initial deployment stage, a financial institution shall implement additional
          safeguards,  particularly  for products  that pose higher  risks  arising from
          inaccurate identification.

S  8.33  To facilitate deployment of e-KYC solutions for products with higher risks arising
          from  inaccurate  identification,  a  financial  institution  shall  observe  the
          considerations and safeguards specified  in Appendix 4. This  list may be
           specified, amended or superseded from time to time as and when there are
         developments  in  the e-KYC  landscape,  including  availability  of  better
         performance data on the effectiveness of specific e-KYC methods.

   9     Reporting requirements

S  9.1    In monitoring the effectiveness and accuracy of e-KYC solutions  utilising
              artificial intelligence, machine learning or other forms of predictive algorithms,
         a financial institution shall maintain a record of the performance of the e-KYC
           solution segregated on a monthly basis.

S  9.2   The records required to be maintained under this policy document shall be
        made readily available for review by the Bank.

S  9.3  A financial institution shall submit the record in relation to paragraph 9.1 via the
        STATsmart Integrated Submission Platform (ISP) accessible via Kijang.Net
            (refer to Appendix 6 for details).

S  9.4  A financial institution shall submit the record in relation to paragraph 9.1 on a
           half-yearly basis according to the following arrangement-
                (i)    For the period of January to June of each year, the record shall be
                submitted no later than 4 August of the same year; and
                 (ii)    For the period of July to December each year, the record shall be
                submitted no later than 4 February the following year.

S  9.5    In respect of paragraph 9.4, in the event that the deadline falls on a non-working
          day, the deadline will be extended to the next immediate working day, unless
            specifically informed by the Bank in writing on the revised deadline.
                                                                       Page 13 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

   PART C   REGULATORY PROCESS
   10    Notification for licensed persons and prescribed development financial
            institutions

S  10.1  Subject to paragraphs 8.1 and 8.3, where a licensed person14 or a prescribed
         development financial institution15 meets the requirements stipulated in this
           policy document and intends to implement an e-KYC solution described in
         paragraph 8.19 for the first time16 or change the appointed technology provider
            for the e-KYC solution, a complete list of information as set out in Appendix 5
           shall be submitted to the Bank. This shall also include a complete  list of
           information  to  demonstrate  that  the  technology  provider  complies  with
          requirements set out in paragraph 8.22 and Appendix 3 of this policy document.

S  10.2  In respect of paragraph 10.1, a licensed person or a prescribed development
            financial institution may proceed to implement and utilise the e-KYC solution
            after 14 working days from the date of receipt by the relevant Departments of
          the Bank of the complete submission of information set out in Appendix 5. The
         submission of information to the Bank shall be made to Jabatan Penyeliaan
         Konglomerat  Kewangan,  Jabatan  Penyeliaan  Perbankan  or  Jabatan
          Penyeliaan Insurans dan Takaful, as the case may be and shall be signed off
         by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer or Chief Operating Officer who
         has the responsibility to ensure that the information submitted pursuant to this
         paragraph is complete and accurate.

G  10.3  In respect of paragraph 10.1, where a licensed person or a prescribed
         development financial institution intends to implement the e-KYC solution for
          the first time and the product to be offered qualifies as a new product as defined
         under the Introduction of New Products policy document17, the information
          required under the aforementioned policy document and this policy document
       may be submitted together to the Bank.

S  10.4  Prior to submitting the information required in paragraph 10.1, a licensed person
           or a prescribed development financial institution, shall ensure, where relevant,
          approvals such as those in relation to the Bank’s RMiT and Outsourcing policy
         documents are obtained.





      14 As defined under the FSA or IFSA.
      15 As defined under the DFIA. This excludes cases where a prescribed development financial institution licensed
     under the MSBA intends to implement e-KYC for remittance services.
      16 For avoidance of doubt, this requirement also applies to a financial institution implementing e-KYC in the
     following situations for the first time: (i) e-KYC for legal persons; and/or (ii) e-KYC for higher risk products without
    a credit transfer safeguard.
      17 Or in the case of life insurers and family takaful operators, the Introduction of New Products by Insurers and
     Takaful Operators policy document.
                                                                       Page 14 of 28
       Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

   11   Approval for licensed money services business

S  11.1  Subject to paragraphs 8.1 to 8.3 and as required under the AML/CFT/CPF and
        TFS for FIs policy document, licensed money-changing operators, licensed
          remittance service providers 18 , approved non-bank issuers of designated
         payment instruments and approved non-bank issuers of designated Islamic
         payment instruments shall obtain a written approval from Jabatan Pemantauan
         Perkhidmatan Pembayaran prior to implementing e-KYC or changing the
          appointed technology provider for the e-KYC solution.

S  11.2  In respect of paragraph, 11.1, application for approval shall include a complete
                list of information as set out in Appendix 5 and a complete list of information to
         demonstrate that the technology provider complies with requirements set out in
         paragraph 8.22 and Appendix 3 of this policy document.

   12   Enforcement

    12.1 Where the Bank deems that the requirements in this document have not been
         complied with, the Bank may take appropriate enforcement action against the
            financial institution, including the directors, officers and employees with any
           provision marked as “S” in this document or direct a financial institution to-
                (i)    undertake corrective action to address any identified shortcomings;
                and/or
                 (ii)    suspend or discontinue implementation of e-KYC.





      18 This includes cases where a prescribed development financial institution licensed to conduct remittance service
     under the Money Services Business Act 2011 (MSBA) intends to implement e-KYC for remittance services.
                                                                   Page 15 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Examples of verification methods to establish business
legitimacy

1.    In developing e-KYC methods for legal persons, a financial institution may wish
      to consider undertaking at least one or more verification methods that is relevant
      to the nature or business model of the legal person. This aims to provide
     heightened assurance on the legitimacy of the legal person’s business.

2.   Such verification measures may include but not be limited to the following:
          (i)   make video calls to the CEO, directors, or authorised person assigned
               to the legal person. During the video call, reporting institutions may
             request the person to show proof of business existence such as
            signboard or inventories  (if any). During the video  call, a financial
                institution may request the person to show proof of business existence
           such as signboard or inventories  (if any). A financial institution may
             consider making unannounced video calls depending on the ML/TF/PF
                risk identified on a particular customer. Such unannounced call may be
               effective in identifying circumstances where a fraudulent business had
            staged its premise in advance of the call;
           (ii)     identify and verify the location of legal person to ensure that the location
           matches the registered or business address of the legal person via
           methods  that  provide  high  levels  of  assurance and  are  legally
              permissible19. A financial institution may also verify location of the CEO,
               directors, or authorised person during the video call;
            (iii)    verify the legal person’s information against a database maintained by
              credible independent sources such as relevant regulatory authorities,
           government agencies or associations  of the regulated  sectors. A
               financial institution may also request for the legal person’s active bank
            account statement or audited financial statement as proof of on-going
            business activity; and/or
         (iv)   any  other  credible  verification methods as proposed by  financial
               institutions to the Bank.





19 Examples of such methods include (but are not limited to) video calls, use of internet map/location services,
drones, or visits by the financial institution’s agent network.
                                                                   Page 16 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

Appendix 2: False Acceptance Rate and sampling

1.    In measuring the accuracy and effectiveness of e-KYC solutions, the FAR may
    be considered a useful measurement as it captures the capability of the solution
      to identify non-genuine identification and verification cases. Generally, a lower
    FAR indicates that the e-KYC solution has correctly identified non-genuine or
     fraudulent identification and verification attempts on a regular basis.

2.  FAR shall be measured based on the number of complete20 identification and
      verification cases processed under e-KYC.

3.    In determining FAR, a  financial  institution shall conduct audits to classify
      identification and verification cases into genuine and non-genuine cases. Where
          it  is not feasible for a financial institution to audit every identification and
      verification case facilitated through e-KYC, a financial institution may adopt a
     sampling approach. In doing so, a financial institution shall adopt a risk-based
     sampling approach in determining the appropriate sample size for each module21
      of the e-KYC solution and ensure that the sample size data used to determine
    FAR  is random, unbiased and representative  of the  entire population  of
     customers.

4.    In determining the appropriate sample size and group, a financial institution shall
     ensure that FAR calculations are based on total sample cases tested (i.e. if 1,000
     cases were tested as the sample size, then the FAR data submitted must be
    based on the 1,000 cases sampled).

5.    In determining the appropriate sampling approach, a financial institution shall at
    minimum take into consideration the following sampling dimensions to ensure
      that FAR results from the sample size tested appropriately reflects the severity
      of any FAR threshold breaches22:
          (i)    Minimum sample size: The sample size shall minimally meet a 95%
            confidence level and 3% margin of error or 400 cases per month,
            whichever is higher.
           (ii)   Time-based considerations: For the first 6 months of implementation
           where the level of assurance of the e-KYC solution effectiveness is not
             yet optimal, a higher sample size is recommended to gain a higher level
              of assurance. Subsequent to this, a financial institution may lower the
            sampling size tested if the FAR performance is satisfactory.
            (iii)   Risk-based  considerations:  For  higher  risk  financial  products  or
           segments (e.g. current and savings account for customers that do not
           have an existing bank account), a financial institution may wish to
            conduct a larger or full sampling approach.



20 A complete identification and verification case processed under e-KYC is defined as a case where the customer
has completed only the e-KYC checks as described in paragraph 3 of Appendix 4. This includes cases where e-
KYC for individuals related to legal persons are implemented. This does not include other steps in the e-KYC
process (e.g. credit transfer).
21 i.e., facial recognition, liveness detection & ID document.
22 For avoidance of doubt, the higher or stricter of considerations in (i) – (iv) shall apply in determining the minimum
sample size. For example,  if the minimum sample size required from 5(ii) is lower than that needed to meet
requirements in 5(i), the minimum sample size required shall not be lower than that of 5(i).
                                                                   Page 17 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

         (iv)   Progressive sampling: Where one or more false positives are detected
               in the initial sample, a financial institution may wish to consider a higher
           sample size, with a focus on e-KYC cases that may share the same
               profile and result in a similar outcome as the identified false positive
            case.

6.  A financial institution shall make readily available upon request by the Bank,
     information on false positive cases that are genuine fraud attempts and cases
      that were falsely accepted by the solution due to other reasons23.

7.    In respect of paragraph 3 of this Appendix, a financial institution shall conduct
     audits on current month e-KYC cases by the last day of the following month (e.g.
     January cases to be audited by the last day of February) for the first six months
      of e-KYC implementation. After the first six months of e-KYC implementation, a
      financial institution shall conduct the audits no less than once every quarter,
    where current quarter e-KYC cases shall be conducted by the last day of the first
    month of the following quarter (e.g. first quarter cases to be audited by the last
    day of April).

8.    In principle, a financial institution is highly encouraged to strive to ensure that the
      overall FAR of the e-KYC solution is as low and close to zero as possible.
     Nevertheless, a financial institution should also take into consideration other data
     points beyond FAR to form an informed view of the risk level and effectiveness
      of the solution. This may include factors such as the number of identification and
      verification cases, number of false positives, availability of other safeguards,
     fraud patterns observed, and the risks associated with inaccurate identification
      for a particular product or service offered through e-KYC.

9.   Generally, for e-KYC solutions leveraging the use of artificial intelligence, FAR
     should reduce  with  the  increase  in  identification and  verification cases
     processed.

10.  To strengthen solution performance and enable quicker cadence for remedial
      action, a financial institution shall adopt a tiered approach for FAR threshold
     monitoring, review and notification, as follows:
                            Table 1: FAR thresholds and actions to be taken

       FAR thresholds              Action to be taken when breached

              Level 1      A financial institution shall continuously monitor and improve
          (0% – 3%)       the capability of e-KYC solutions.





23 Reasons may include but are not limited to blurry images (ID images that are blurry but may be genuine, which
were falsely accepted by the solution but should have been rejected), poor image quality, poor lighting or
overexposure during facial recognition/ID document verification step, poor framing of the face/ID document, etc.
                                                                   Page 18 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

                     A financial institution shall conduct a risk assessment for
                                   notification to the Board and internal review to strengthen the
                        e-KYC solution, including taking the appropriate rectification
                           measures.

                                  In conducting the risk assessment, financial institutions may
              Level 2                              consider the FAR performance together with other relevant
               (> 3%)                                  factors, observation points and considerations to provide an
                             informed view of the risk level of the solution performance.
                            For  example,  this may  include  the  total  number  of
                                    identification and verification cases performed, number of
                                 false positives, existing mitigating controls, fraud patterns
                             observed, etc.
                        Where FAR is measured to be more than 5% for any two
                          months within a four-month period, a financial institution shall
                                   notify the Bank and submit an assessment of the e-KYC
                                 solution performance and mitigation measures.

              Level 3       The notification shall be submitted to Jabatan Penyeliaan
               (> 5%)        Konglomerat Kewangan, Jabatan Penyeliaan Perbankan,
                            Jabatan  Penyeliaan  Insurans  dan  Takaful  or  Jabatan
                         Pemantauan Perkhidmatan Pembayaran, as the case may
                              be,  in  writing  within seven  (7) working days upon the
                             completion of the latest audit and detection of this FAR
                               scenario.

11.  In respect of paragraph 10 of this Appendix, the notification to the Bank shall
     include the following-
          (i)    an assessment on the current performance of the e-KYC solution,
             including reasons for the observed level of FAR, risk level of the e-KYC
              solution, as well as existing mitigating controls in place;
           (ii)   an assessment on whether the false positive case was successfully
            onboarded, or  if the false positive case was detected and rejected
            through other mitigating controls24 already in place as part of the e-KYC
            process. This assessment shall also include an analysis on the nature of
             the false positive cases (e.g. whether the cases are related to any mule
                activity,  an  emerging  fraud  trend/modus  operandi,  suspicious
              transactions, etc);
           (iii)   proposed rectification actions to reduce the FAR going forward and
            address any identified vulnerabilities;
         (iv)   proposed new mitigating actions or additional controls to safeguard the
             effectiveness of the e-KYC process; and
        (v)   evidence that the Board is satisfied with items (i) to (iv) above, and with
             the decision to either continue or suspend using the same e-KYC
              solution, when such assessment by the Board has been made.





24 e.g., Via verification against existing credible bureau files, fraud databases or any other form of fraud detection
measures.
                                                                   Page 19 of 28
  Electronic Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC)

12.  In respect of paragraph 11 (iv) of this Appendix, the mitigating actions and/or
      additional controls may include but are not limited to the following-
          (i)    enhanced monitoring of customers identified and verified through e-KYC;
            and/or
           (ii)    conducting audits on e-KYC cases prior to opening an account.

13.  Where FAR exceeds 5% and the Bank assesses a financial institution and its
    Board did not effectively undertake the expected rectification measures on
      vulnerabilities that were identified, relevant enforcement action may be taken
     against  the  financial  institution. The Bank may  also  specify  controls  or
      intervention measures as deemed necessary.
                                                                   Page 20 of 28

Appendix 3: Minimum scope and criteria for external independent assessment

Introduction

1.   The AML/CFT/CPF & TFS for FI PD25 requires reporting institutions to ensure
     the systems and technology deployed for the purpose of establishing a business
      relationship  using  non-face-to-face  channels  (including e-KYC) have  the
      capabilities to support an effective AML/CFT/CPF compliance programme26.

2.   Hence, the objective of the external independent assessment in paragraph 8.22
      of this policy document is to identify the overall effectiveness27 and robustness
      of the e-KYC solution in detecting and mitigating ML/TF/PF and fraud risks at the
      point of customer on-boarding. The assessment shall include any identified
     gaps/weaknesses  in  the  e-KYC  solution,  areas  for  improvement  and
     recommendations to address such gaps/weaknesses.

Scope

3.   The assessment shall cover the three (3) modules of an e-KYC solution, namely
      facial recognition, liveness detection (presentation attack detection) and Identity
    Document (ID) verification (which includes MyKad, international passports or any
     other common IDs used).

Criteria of assessment

4.   The assessment  shall be conducted  in accordance  with an  appropriate
     methodology that is clear, structured and effective in delivering the intended
      objectives.

5.   The assessment shall be conducted on a risk-based approach and shall ensure
     areas of higher risk are given an appropriate level of focus and intensity.

6.   The assessment shall:
       (a)   Determine whether the e-KYC solution fulfils the requirements in relevant
             established standards and practices, if any;
       (b)    Evaluate effectiveness of the methodology and key parameters used in
             the relevant modules of the e-KYC solution, to the extent possible;




25 Under paragraphs 14A.15.8 (for Banking and Deposit-Taking Institutions), 14.17.10 (for Insurance and Takaful),
14C.16.13  (for Money Services Business) and 14D.16.11  (for Non-Bank Issuers  of Designated Payment
Instruments and Designated Islamic Payment Instruments).
26 As part of the AML/CFT/CPF compliance programme, under paragraph 14A.3 (for Banking and Deposit-Taking
Institutions), 14B.3 (for Insurance and Takaful), 14C.4 (for Money Services Business) and 14D.3 (for Non-Bank
Issuers of Designated Payment Instruments and Designated Islamic Payment Instruments), reporting institutions
are required to conduct customer due diligence (CDD) to identify the customer and verify that the customer’s
identity using reliable, independent source document, data or information.
27 Effectiveness is defined as the overall ability of the e-KYC solution to detect identity fraud and not deemed as
indicating whether a particular e-KYC solution is being endorsed and/or more effective than others.
                                                                   Page 21 of 28

        (c)   Take into consideration any certifications28 and tests results/outcome on
             the e-KYC solution by credible independent bodies29; and
       (d)   Ensure breakthrough  testing  is conducted  in accordance with the
          minimum requirements under paragraph 7 of this Appendix.

7.   Breakthrough testing are tests conducted on the e-KYC solution from end-to-end
      to mimic a malicious attacker. Specific requirements for breakthrough testing on
     the e-KYC solution are as follows:
       (a)   The tests shall be conducted in a comprehensive and effective manner,
               in line with emerging fraud techniques;
       (b)   The tests shall consist of various test scenarios for each module under
             the e-KYC  solution,  including the  following as  well as any other
              alternative but equally robust test scenarios:
          Module                      Test Scenarios
         ID verification   •  Physical tampering of ID.
                          •  Digital tampering of ID.
                          • Use of fake ID:
                       o Low quality fakes (e.g., self-generated)
                       o Medium  quality  fakes  (e.g.,  ID  that may be
                            produced by printing shops)
                       o  If possible, use of high quality fakes.
          Facial           • Tampering of selfie image but not ID.
                          • Tampering of ID but not selfie image.          recognition
                          • Tampering of both selfie image and ID.
                          • Use of different person’s selfie vs ID (eg. Mr.A’s selfie
                             against Mr.B’s ID)
         Liveness test   Presentation  attack  detection  test may be done  in
                      conformance to ISO/IEC 30107-3 standards, where there
                                 is increasing degree of sophistication as commercially
                           available  technology  solution  to  produce  biometric
                            artefacts become more readily available. This shall include
                            at minimum the following:
                          • Use  of  simple  artefacts produced  with equipment
                               readily available in a normal home e.g., 2D mask.
                          • Use of 3D mask.
                          • Use of falsified biometric traits e.g. facial image using
                           software readily available in the market ‘ShallowFake’
                               application.



28 Such as ISO 30107-3 on presentation attack detection and ISO 19794-5 on standardized face image format for
facial recognition application.
29 For example, for each module under the e-KYC solution, the assessment on the capability of the e-KYC solution
should be made. This can be done by comparing any credible third-party independent test results (such as National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Facial Recognition Vendor Test (FRVT), NIST FRVT Presentation
Attack Detection (PAD) or National Fintech Evaluation Center (NFEC) facial recognition assessment), against a
known benchmark (such as known accuracy for humans in facial matching capability).
                                                                   Page 22 of 28


                          •   If possible, use of falsified biometric traits created using
                                      artificial     intelligence    technology    “DeepFake”
                               application.
                          • Coverage of the test scenarios must reflect the latest
                                 identity impersonation and cyber-attack techniques.

        (c)   The tests must be done using an adequate sample size in accordance
             with the various test scenarios for each module. The number of test
           samples should be risk-based (for instance, a smaller number of test
           samples can be prepared for a module that has undergone credible tests
             or met a known benchmarked, whereas more vigorous testing is required
             with higher sample size for a module which has not undergone any
             credible test or benchmark).
       (d)    Test samples shall be representative of and adequately reflect the
           demographics of an FI’s customers (e.g., coverage of race, gender, age,
               etc).
       (e)    Test samples shall consist of low, medium and high quality of samples30.
          (f)   The tests shall include replay attacks test (e.g., resubmission of identical
           images  test,  man-in-the-middle  attack  via  network  layer  packet
             transmission approach), where at least two rounds of random re-tests
              shall be conducted.
       (g)    For ID  verification,  it  is recommended that the testing include the
            elements below:
                        i.    Detection of tampered personal data e.g. name, address
                        ii.    Detection and  verification  of micro  print  (e.g., existence and
                  features of micro print, font type and size, unique colour);
                        iii.    Detection and verification of hologram image (i.e., comparison of
                hologram image against ID image and selfie);
                iv.     Official markings (e.g., the Malaysian flag, MyKad logo, font type
               and size)
               v.    Identity card number (e.g., consistency of presented MyKad with
                   existing numbering and format conventions,  for passport the
                 machine-readable zone (MRZ)  bit-check number and  format
                  conventions); and
       (h)    ID verification shall include verification of passports that are compliant
             with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) standards. The ID
               verification on international passports shall focus more on passports
            from countries where the financial institution’s customers are commonly
             from.





30 For example, low quality test samples are simple, fast and cheap to produce. Medium quality test samples are
moderately difficult to produce, takes longer time (eg.1-3 days) and involves moderate investment. Where else
high quality test samples are generally difficult/requires more expertise to produce, takes longer time and can be
expensive.
                                                                   Page 23 of 28

8.   The outcome of the assessment shall be adequately and clearly documented
    and shall be submitted to the TPs and subsequently submitted to the relevant
      financial institutions. The outcome of the assessment shall include the following:
               i.    areas of gaps/weaknesses and areas for improvement; and
              ii.   recommendations to address any weaknesses or gaps detected. This
              shall also include recommendation on any certifications required.
                                                                   Page 24 of 28

Appendix 4: e-KYC safeguards to be adopted by financial institutions offering
higher risk financial products

1.    List of products31 subjected to e-KYC safeguards:
          (i)     current account;
           (ii)    savings account; and
            (iii)    unrestricted investment account with funds placement and withdrawal
                 flexibilities as well as funds transfer features.

    e-KYC for individuals with credit transfer for higher risk products

2.  A financial institution offering the financial products in paragraph 1 of this
     Appendix through e-KYC  for  the purpose  of customer  identification and
      verification shall at minimum-
          (i)     verify the customer against a government issued ID by utilising biometric
             technology;
           (ii)    ensure that the government issued ID used to support e-KYC customer
               verification  is  authentic  by  utilising  appropriate  fraud  detection
           mechanisms;
            (iii)   ensure the customer is a live subject and not an impersonator (e.g. use
              of photos, videos, synthetic human face masks) by utilising liveness
              detection; and
         (iv)   undertake measures to demonstrate that the customer has an existing
           bank account with another licensed person and is able to access said
           bank account. This may be achieved through requiring the customer to
            perform a credit transfer or to verify an amount transferred to the said
           bank account.

3.   In respect of paragraph 2 (iv) of this Appendix, a financial institution shall ensure
     that the customer details (i.e. name or identity document number) obtained in
     relation to the bank account with another licensed person is consistent with the
     details supplied by the customer.

4.   In addition to requirements under paragraph 3 of this Appendix, a financial
      institution may also consider additional verification measures listed in paragraph
    10 of this Appendix for higher levels of assurance, where deemed appropriate
    based on its own risk assessment.

    e-KYC for individuals without credit transfer for higher risk products

6.   The requirement in paragraph 2 (iv) of this Appendix does not apply where an
      individual customer does not have any existing bank account with another
     licensed person and thus is unable to perform the credit transfer step. In lieu of
     the credit transfer safeguard, a financial institution intending to offer the products
      listed in this Appendix to individual customers shall ensure to:
          (i)    have in place sufficient controls based on internal assessment of risk
              arising from offering the product without the credit transfer step;


31 Requirements in this Appendix apply to existing individual customers of a financial institution that do not have
any of the products listed in paragraph 1 of this Appendix and is intending to apply for one through e-KYC.
                                                                   Page 25 of 28

           (ii)   be able to demonstrate that their e-KYC solution remains effective and
             secure;
           (iii)    build in a combination of both additional verification measures and
             ringfencing parameters to establish higher assurance levels and limit risk
            exposure; and
         (iv)    build in safeguards such that products offered in paragraph 1 of this
           Appendix to customers that do not have an existing bank account shall
             not have fund transfer capabilities to accounts of the same customer
           name.

7.    In respect of paragraph 6 (iv) of this Appendix, this requirement may be waived
     subject to the following conditions:
          (i)     Availability of and implementation of infrastructures that enable the
            accounts opened under paragraph 6 of this appendix to be clearly
             distinguished from other accounts under paragraph 1 of this appendix at
                  all times; or
           (ii)   Use of a trusted National Digital Identity32 for identity verification.

8.    In respect of accounts opened under paragraph 6 of this Appendix, a financial
      institution may,  subject  to  their own  risk assessment,  consider  uplifting
     ringfencing parameters imposed under paragraph 6  (iii) and fund transfer
      limitations under paragraph 6 (iv) where the financial institution ascertains the
     customer is genuine and determines the customer may be upgraded to  full
      capability accounts, subject to the following conditions:
          (i)     Sufficient account activity is observed for at least twelve months and the
              financial  institution’s  satisfactory assessment 33 that the account  is
            genuine; or
           (ii)   The customer consents to  visit a bank branch for physical identity
               verification.

9.    In respect of paragraph 6 of this Appendix, a financial institution shall take
     reasonable measures to verify whether the individual customer has an existing
    bank account with another licensed person. This may include but are not limited
      to the following measures:
          (i)      initiating an instant transfer  (i.e. DuitNow) query via the customer’s
            mobile phone number or IC number and verifying whether information
           on the query matches the customer’s personal details or otherwise;
           (ii)    presenting a declaration form for the customer to confirm that the
            customer does not have an existing bank account with another licensed
             person; or
           (iii)   through any other  credible methods or  infrastructures as may be
           proposed for the Bank’s consideration.





32 Issued by the relevant authorities of the government of Malaysia.
33 A financial institution’s decision to graduate the account must be well documented.
                                                                   Page 26 of 28

10.  In respect of paragraph 4 and paragraph 6 of this Appendix, examples of
      additional  verification measures and  ringfencing parameters  that may be
     undertaken and  built into the e-KYC process to provide a higher level of
     assurance for customers include but are not limited to:
      Ringfencing parameters
            (i)    limiting product functions (e.g. lower account size and fund transfer
                limits, no cross-border wire transfer) at the  initial period of account
            opening (i.e., at least 12 months post-account opening).

      Additional verification measures
            (i)   performing a credit transfer from an existing e-wallet account held by the
            customer with a participating DuitNow e-wallet provider (applicable to
            customers without an existing bank account with another financial
                institution only);
             (ii)   conducting audits for on-boarding cases prior to granting access to
             account;
             (iii)  telephone or video calls to the customer;
          (iv)   utilising device-based indicators to detect potential fraud attempts (e.g.
             consistency of IP address, geo-location, device IDs, methods to detect
              jailbroken/rooted devices and network connection used);
         (v)   analysing publicly available data (e.g. social media and digital footprints)
              to check for identity consistency;
          (vi)  requesting for official documents issued by government agencies or
              credible providers which can be verified by the document issuer (e.g.
           income statement, utility bills, etc);
           (vii)  requiring customers  to complete online questionnaires  for account
            opening applications that require a wide range of information, which can
           be verified;
            (viii) confirming the customer’s identity during physical delivery of bank cards;
          (ix)  introducing specific transaction monitoring scenarios/parameters and
                stricter on-going due diligence review cycles and triggers for accounts
           opened through e-KYC; and conducting randomised audits on e-KYC
           cases post on-boarding.

11.    In relation to paragraph 8 of this Appendix, the financial institution’s decision to
      graduate the account must be well documented and maintained in accordance
       with record keeping requirements under the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs
       policy document and must be made available to the Bank upon request.
                                                                   Page 27 of 28

Appendix 5: Information required for submission

1.  A detailed product description, including its features, structure and target market
     or customers. Product illustrations shall also be included where appropriate.

2.  Sample product term sheet.

3.   Detailed information on the key features of the e-KYC solution. This may include
    types  of  checks, customer  information  captured and any  other  material
     information.

4.  A written assessment on the effectiveness of the e-KYC solution. The written
    assessment may consider accuracy of technology functions, types of checks
     included and any other relevant information that may attest for the effectiveness
     of the underlying technology. Where relevant, the assessment should include
   FAR results gathered from conducting negative testing of fraudulent scenarios34
    on  the e-KYC  solution. Other  relevant  information  supporting  the  written
    assessment such as independent assurance, review or certification may also be
    considered for this purpose.
5.   In the case where a financial institution chooses to engage a technology provider,
     the assessment to demonstrate effectiveness of the e-KYC solution shall include
    a complete  list of information to demonstrate that the technology provider
    complies with requirements set out in paragraph 8.22 and Appendix 3 of this
     policy document. The assessment may also include the technology provider’s
    company background and track record in other jurisdictions or industries.

6.   Description of key inherent risks of the e-KYC solution and arrangements in place
     to manage those risks. Where a financial institution deems it necessary, plans for
    implementation of enhanced monitoring and reporting mechanisms to identify
     potential ML/TF/PF activities should also be included in the description.

7.   Detailed end-to-end process flow of the e-KYC solution. This may include but is
     not limited to an illustration of the customer journey and decision-making process
    from start of application to account opening.

8.  Any other relevant information to demonstrate a financial institution’s ability to
    comply with the standards  in  this document and any other related  policy
    documents issued by the Bank, including, where applicable-
          (i)    AML/CFT/CPF and TFS for FIs policy document;
           (ii)   RMiT policy document;
            (iii)    Electronic Money (E-Money) policy document;
         (iv)   Governance, Risk Management, and Operations for Money Services
            Business (MSB) policy document; and
        (v)    Outsourcing policy document.
9.  Any additional documents or information as may be specified by the Bank.


34 Negative testing may include testing the e-KYC solution against photocopied ICs, deepfake technology or any
other method which may spoof the e-KYC solution into accepting an inaccurate on-boarding attempt.
                                                                   Page 28 of 28


Appendix 6: Submission instructions

1.  The completed e-KYC reporting template shall be submitted to the Bank via the
    Integrated Submission Platform (ISP) on https://kijangnet.bnm.gov.my.

2.  Please refer to the ‘User Manual on Kijang.Net, Integrated Submission Platform
   and Entity Database for Reporting Entities’ accessible here or via Kijang.Net Portal
     for guidance on the following:

          (i)    Access to the Kijang.Net Portal
           (ii)    User registration and approval process
           (iii)   Submission process

    Enquiries on reporting-related matters shall be addressed to Jabatan Pengurusan
   Data dan Statistik (JPS) via email or telephone as specified below:

          (i)    Group Email address          : jps_ips@bnm.gov.my
           (ii)    Telephone number             : +603 26988044
           (iii)   Extension                            : 7225, 7999, 7819, 7799
