       Risk Management in Technology (RMiT)





Applicable to:
1.  Licensed banks, including licensed digital banks
2.  Licensed investment banks
3.  Licensed Islamic banks, including licensed Islamic digital banks
4.  Licensed insurers including professional reinsurers
5.  Licensed takaful operators including professional retakaful operators
6.  Prescribed development financial institutions
7. Approved issuers of electronic money
8.  Operator of a designated payment system




Issued on: 01 June 2023                                 BNM/RH/PD 028-98
Risk Management in Technology                                    2 of 67


                    TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1      Introduction ........................................................................................................ 3

  2       Applicability ....................................................................................................... 3

  3      Legal provision .................................................................................................. 3

  4       Effective date ..................................................................................................... 4

  5       Interpretation ..................................................................................................... 4

  6      Related legal instruments and policy documents ........................................... 6

  7      Policy documents and circulars superseded .................................................. 6


PART B  POLICY REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................. 8

  8     Governance ........................................................................................................ 8

  9     Technology Risk Management ....................................................................... 10

  10    Technology Operations Management ............................................................ 11

  11     Cybersecurity Management ............................................................................ 25

  12    Technology Audit ............................................................................................ 31

  13      Internal Awareness and Training .................................................................... 31


PART C  REGULATORY PROCESS .............................................................................. 32

  14     Notification for Technology-Related Applications ........................................ 32

  15     Consultation and Notification related to Cloud Services .............................. 34

  16    Assessment and Gap Analysis ....................................................................... 35

APPENDICES .............................................................................................................. 36

  Appendix 1  Storage and Transportation of Sensitive Data in Removable Media .......... 36

  Appendix 2   Control Measures on Self-service Terminals (SST) ............................... 37

  Appendix 3   Control Measures on Internet Banking ................................................. 40

  Appendix 4   Control Measures on Mobile Application and Devices ............................ 41

  Appendix 5   Control Measures on Cybersecurity ..................................................... 42

  Appendix 6   Positive List for Enhancements to Electronic Banking, Internet
               Insurance and Internet Takaful Services ............................................... 43

  Appendix 7   Risk Assessment Report ..................................................................... 47

  Appendix 8  Format of Confirmation ............................................................................. 49

  Appendix 9   Supervisory Expectations on External Party Assurance ......................... 50

  Appendix 10 Key Risks and Control Measures for Cloud Services …………………....…52



Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                    3 of 67


PART A   OVERVIEW


1      Introduction

1.1    Technology  risk  refers  to  risks emanating from the use  of information
       technology (IT) and the Internet. These risks arise from failures or breaches
         of IT systems, applications, platforms or infrastructure, which could result in
         financial loss, disruptions in financial services or operations, or reputational
      harm to a financial institution.

1.2    With the more prevalent use of technology in the provision of financial
        services, there is a need for financial institutions to strengthen their technology
        resilience against operational disruptions  to maintain confidence  in the
         financial system. The growing sophistication of cyber threats also calls for the
       increased vigilance and capability of financial  institutions to respond to
       emerging threats. Critically, this should ensure the continuous availability of
        essential financial services to customers and adequate protection of customer
        data.

1.3     This policy document sets out the Bank’s requirements with regard to financial
         institutions’ management  of  technology  risk.  In  complying  with  these
        requirements, a  financial  institution  shall have regard  to the size and
        complexity of its operations. Accordingly, larger and more complex financial
         institutions are expected to demonstrate risk management practices and
        controls that are commensurate with the increased technology risk exposure
         of the institution. In addition, all financial institutions shall observe minimum
        prescribed standards in this policy document to prevent the exploitation of
      weak links in interconnected networks and systems that may cause detriment
         to other financial institutions and the wider financial system. The control
      measures set out in Appendices 1 to 5 and Appendix 10 serve as a guide for
       sound practices in defined areas. Financial institutions should be prepared to
        explain alternative risk management practices that depart from the control
      measures outlined in the Appendices and demonstrate their effectiveness in
       addressing the financial institution’s technology risk exposure.

2       Applicability

2.1     This policy document is applicable to all financial institutions as defined in
       paragraph 5.2.

3     Legal provision

3.1   The requirements in this policy document are specified pursuant to—
         (a)  Sections 47(1) and 143(2) of the Financial Services Act 2013 (FSA);
         (b)  Sections 57(1) and 155(2) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013
             (IFSA); and
         (c)  Sections 41(1) and 116(1) of the Development Financial Institutions Act
           2002 (DFIA).





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                    4 of 67


3.2   The guidance in this policy document are issued pursuant to section 266 of the
      FSA, section 277 of the IFSA and section 126 of the DFIA.

4       Effective date

4.1   This policy document comes into effect on 1 June 2023 except for paragraph
      10.50, paragraph 15 and Appendix 10 which come  into  effect on the
      corresponding dates in respect of the relevant financial institutions other than a
       licensed digital bank or licensed Islamic digital bank as set out below:

       (a)   1 June 2024 in respect of financial institutions which have already
           adopted public cloud for critical systems prior to the issuance date of this
              policy document. However, if any of the terms of the financial institution’s
              existing contracts with the cloud service providers are not in accordance
             with the provisions of Appendix 10, the financial institutions may make
             the necessary amendments or modifications during the next renewal of
             the relevant contracts with the cloud service providers  i.e., after the
              effective date of the relevant provisions in this policy document in respect
              of the financial institution; and
       (b)   1 June 2024 in respect of financial institutions which have not adopted
              public cloud for critical systems prior to the issuance date of this policy
           document.

4.2   This policy document comes into effect on 1 June 2023 in respect of a
licensed digital bank or licensed Islamic digital bank.

5      Interpretation

5.1   The terms and expressions used in this policy document shall have the same
     meanings assigned to them in the FSA, IFSA or DFIA, as the case may be,
      unless otherwise defined in this policy document.

5.2    For purposes of this policy document –

      “S” denotes a standard, an obligation, a requirement, specification, direction,
        condition and any interpretative, supplemental and transitional provisions that
       must be complied with. Non-compliance may result in enforcement action;

      “G” denotes guidance which may consist of statements or information
       intended to promote common understanding and advice or recommendations
         that are encouraged to be adopted;

       “board” refers to the board of directors of a financial institution, including any
       committee carrying out any of the responsibilities of the board under this policy
       document;

         “critical system” refers to any application system that supports the provision
         of critical banking, insurance or payment services, where failure of the system
       has the potential to significantly impair the financial institution’s provision of
         financial  services  to customers  or  counterparties, business  operations,




Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                    5 of 67


         financial  position,  reputation,  or  compliance  with  applicable laws and
        regulatory requirements;

      “customer and counterparty information” refers to any information relating
        to the affairs or, in particular, the account, of any customer or counterparty of
      a financial institution in whatever form;

       “cyber resilience” refers to the ability of people, processes, IT systems,
        applications, platforms or infrastructures to withstand adverse cyber events;

       “cyber  risk”  refers  to  threats  or  vulnerabilities  emanating  from  the
        connectivity of internal technology infrastructure to external networks or the
         Internet;

        “digital services” refers to the provision of payment, banking, Islamic
       banking, insurance or takaful services delivered to customers via electronic
       channels and devices including Internet and mobile devices, self-service and
        point-of-sale terminals;

        “financial institution” refers to-
         (a)  a licensed person under the FSA and the IFSA (excluding branches of a
             foreign professional reinsurer and a professional retakaful operator);
         (b)  a prescribed institution under the DFIA;
         (c)  an eligible issuer of e-money as defined in the policy document on
             Interoperable Credit Transfer Framework1; and
         (d)  an operator of a designated payment system;

       “large financial institution” refers to-
         (a)  a financial institution with one or more business lines that are significant
               in terms of market share in the relevant industry; or
         (b)  a financial institution with a large network of offices within or outside
            Malaysia through operations of branches and subsidiaries;

       “material technology projects” refers to projects which involve  critical
       systems, the delivery of essential services to customers or counterparties, or
       compliance with regulatory requirements;

      “OTP or one-time password” refers to an alphanumeric or numeric code
       represented by a minimum of 6 characters or digits which is valid only for
        single use;

       “public cloud” refers to a fully virtualised environment in which a service
        provider makes resources such as platforms, applications or storage available
        to  the  public  over  the  Internet  via a  logically  separated  multi-tenant
        architecture;




1 For ease of reference, an “eligible issuer of e-money” is defined as an approved issuer of electronic
money with substantial market presence based on the criteria set out in Appendix 1 of the policy
document on Interoperable Credit Transfer Framework.


Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                    6 of 67


       “production data centre” refers to any facility which hosts active critical
        production application systems irrespective of location;

       "recovery data centre" refers to a facility that a financial institution plans to
        activate to recover and restore its IT applications and operations upon failure
         of its production data centre irrespective of location;

       “senior management” refers to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and senior
         officers;

        “third party service provider” refers to an internal group affiliate or external
         entity providing technology-related functions or services that involve the
        transmission, processing, storage or handling of confidential information
        pertaining to the financial institution or its customers. This includes cloud
       computing software, platform and infrastructure service providers;

       “cloud service provider” refers to a third party service provider who provides
       cloud services to financial institutions.


6     Related legal instruments and policy documents

6.1   This policy document must be read together with any relevant legal instruments,
       policy  documents,  guidelines  etc.  issued  by  the  Bank,  including  any
     amendments and reissuances thereafter, in particular—
         (a)   Policy Document on Risk Governance issued on 1 March 2013 ;
         (b)   Policy Document on Compliance issued on 10 May 2016;
         (c)   Policy Document on Outsourcing issued on 23 October 2019;
         (d)   Policy Document on Operational Risk issued on 10 May 2016;
         (e)   Policy Document on  Operational  Risk  Reporting  Requirement –
             Operational Risk Integrated Online Network (ORION) issued on 25
            February 2021;
           (f)   Policy Document on Introduction of New Products issued on 7 March
            2014;
         (g)   Policy Document on Interoperable Credit Transfer Framework issued on
           23 December 2019;
         (h)   Policy Document on Business Continuity Management issued on 19
          December 2022;
            (i)   Provisions under paragraphs 21, 22 and 26 of the Guidelines on the
             Provision  of  Electronic Banking  (e-banking) Services by  Financial
               Institutions issued on 30 March 2010;
            (j)   Guidelines on Data Management and MIS Framework issued on 23
            October 2008; and
         (k)   Guidelines on Data Management and MIS Framework for Development
             Financial Institutions issued on 5 November 2012.

7      Policy documents and circulars superseded

7.1     This policy document supersedes the following circulars, guidelines and policy
       documents:



Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                    7 of 67


         (a)  Guidelines on Management of IT Environment (GPIS 1) issued in May
            2004;
         (b)   Circular on Prior Notification by Licensed Institutions for External System
             Interfaces issued on 22 November 2010;
         (c)  Preparedness against Distributed Denial of Service Attack issued on 17
            October 2011;
         (d)  Managing  Inherent Risk  of  Internet Banking Kiosks issued on 5
          December 2011;
         (e)   Circular on Managing Risks of Malware Attacks on Automated Teller
           Machine (ATM) issued on 3 October 2014;
           (f)   Managing Cyber Risk Circular issued on 31 July 2015;
         (g)  Managing Cyber Risks on Remote Desktop Protocol Circular issued on
           20 July 2016;
         (h)  Revocation of Prior Notification by Licensed Institutions for External
           System Interfaces issued on 1 June 2017;
            (i)   Guidelines on the Provision of Electronic Banking (e-banking) Services
           by Financial Institutions, except for the provisions under paragraphs 21,
           22 and 26 issued on 18 Nov 2019;
            (j)   Circular on Internet Takaful issued on 10 Jan 2019;
         (k)   Letter to CEO dated 31 October 2017 entitled “Immediate Measures for
           Managing identification of Counterfeit Malaysian Currency Notes at
            Deposit-Accepting Self Service Terminals (SST)”;
            (l)   Letter to CEO dated 7 November 2017 entitled “Guidelines on the
             Provision  of  Electronic Banking  (e-banking) Services by  Financial
               Institutions (“Guidelines”) – Specification Pursuant  to the Financial
            Services Act 2013 (“FSA”), Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 (“IFSA”)
           and Development Financial Institutions Act 2002 (“DFIA”)”;
       (m)  Letter  to CEO  dated 10 November 2017  entitled  “Storage and
             Transportation of Sensitive Data in Removable Media”;
         (n)   Letter to CEO dated 17 May 2018 entitled “Guidelines on Internet
            Insurance (Consolidated) (“Guidelines”) and Circular on Internet Takaful
              (“the Circular’) – Specification Pursuant to the Financial Services Act
           2013 (“FSA”) and Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 (“IFSA”)”;
         (o)   Letter to CEO dated 11 December 2018 entitled “Leveraging on cloud
             services and upliftment of mobile banking condition”;
         (p)  Guidelines on Internet Insurance (Consolidated) issued on 10 January
            2019;
         (q)   Letter to CEO dated 18 November 2019 entitled "Guidelines on the
             Provision  of  Electronic Banking  (e-banking) Services by  Financial
               Institutions, Guidelines on Internet Insurance (Consolidated), Circular on
              Internet Takaful - Specification Pursuant to the Financial Services Act
           2013 ("FSA"), Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 ("IFSA") and the
           Development Financial Institutions Act 2002 ("DFIA")”; and
           (r)   Policy Document on Risk Management in Technology (RMiT) issued on
           1 January 2020 except for paragraphs 10.49, 10.50, 10.51 and 10.52
            which shall remain applicable until 31 May 2024 in respect of financial
               institutions described in paragraph 4.1(a) and (b).





Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                    8 of 67


   PART B    POLICY REQUIREMENTS

   8     Governance

    Responsibilities of the Board of Directors

S  8.1    The board must establish and approve the technology risk appetite which is
            aligned with the financial institution’s risk appetite statement. In doing so, the
           board must approve the corresponding risk tolerances for technology-related
           events and ensure key performance indicators and forward-looking  risk
             indicators are in place to monitor the financial institution’s technology risk
            against   its  approved  risk  tolerance. The  board  must  ensure  senior
         management provides regular updates on the status of these indicators
            together with sufficiently detailed information on key technology risks and
               critical technology operations to facilitate strategic decision-making.

S   8.2    The board must ensure and oversee the adequacy of the financial institution’s
            IT and cybersecurity strategic plans covering a period of no less than three
            years. These plans shall address the financial institution’s requirements on
             infrastructure, control measures to mitigate IT and cyber risk and financial and
            non-financial resources, which are commensurate with the complexity of the
             financial institution’s operations and changes in the risk profile as well as the
           business environment. These plans shall be periodically reviewed, at least
          once every three years.

S   8.3    The board shall be responsible to oversee the effective implementation of a
          sound and robust technology risk management framework (TRMF) and cyber
             resilience framework (CRF), as required to be developed under paragraphs
            9.1 and 11.2, for the financial institution to ensure the continuity of operations
          and delivery of financial services. The TRMF is a framework to safeguard the
             financial institution’s information infrastructure, systems and data, whilst the
        CRF is a framework for ensuring the financial institution’s cyber resilience. The
           board must ensure that the financial institution’s TRMF and CRF remain
            relevant on an ongoing basis. The board must also periodically review and
             affirm the TRMF and CRF, at least once every three years to guide the financial
              institution’s management of technology risks.

S   8.4    The  board must  designate a  board-level  committee2  which  shall be
            responsible for supporting the board in providing oversight over technology-
            related  matters. Among  other  things,  the committee  shall  review  the
            technology-related frameworks  including  the  requirements  spelt  out  in
           paragraphs 8.1 through 8.3, for the board’s approval, and ensure that risk
          assessments undertaken  in  relation  to  material technology  applications
           submitted to the Bank are robust and comprehensive.





      2 The board of a financial institution may either designate an existing board committee or establish a
     separate committee for this purpose. Where such a committee is separate from the Board Risk
    Committee (BRC), there must be appropriate interface between this committee and the BRC on
     technology risk-related matters to ensure effective oversight of all risks at the enterprise level.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                    9 of 67


G  8.5    To  promote  effective  technology  discussions  at  the  board  level,  the
           composition of the board and the designated board-level committee should
            include at least a member with technology experience and competencies.

S   8.6    Given the rapidly evolving cyber threat landscape, the board shall allocate
              sufficient time to discuss cyber risks and related issues, including the strategic
          and reputational risks associated with a cyber-incident. This shall be supported
          by input from external experts as appropriate. The board must also ensure its
           continuous engagement  in  cybersecurity  preparedness,  education and
              training.

S   8.7    The board audit committee (BAC) is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness
             of the internal technology audit function. This includes ensuring the adequate
          competence of the audit staff to perform technology audits. The BAC shall
           review and ensure appropriate audit scope, procedures and frequency of
           technology audits. The BAC must also ensure effective oversight over the
           prompt closure of corrective actions to address technology control gaps.

    Responsibilities of the senior management

S   8.8   A financial institution’s senior management must translate the board-approved
        TRMF and CRF into specific policies and procedures that are consistent with
            the approved risk appetite and risk tolerance and supported by effective
            reporting and escalation procedures.

S   8.9    The senior management must establish a cross-functional committee to
            provide guidance on the financial institution’s technology plans and operations.
         The members of the committee must include senior management from both
           technology  functions  and  major  business   units.  The  committee’s
             responsibilities shall include the following:
             (a)  oversee the formulation and effective implementation of the strategic
               technology plan and associated technology policies and procedures;
             (b)  provide timely updates to the board on key technology matters3; and
              (c)  approve any deviation from technology-related  policies  after having
                  carefully considered a robust assessment  of related  risks. Material
                 deviations shall be reported to the board.

S  8.10   Senior management must ensure the adequate allocation of resources to
            maintain robust technology systems and appropriately skilled and competent
              staff to support the effective management of technology risk.

S  8.11   For large financial institutions, senior management must embed appropriate
            oversight arrangements  within  the  technology  function  to  support  the
            enterprise-wide oversight  of technology  risk. These arrangements must
            provide for designated staff responsible for the identification, assessment and



      3 Key technology matters include updates on critical systems’ performance, significant IT and cyber-
     incidents, management of technology obsolescence risk, status of patch deployment activities for critical
     technology infrastructure, proposals for and progress of strategic technology projects, performance of
      critical technology outsourcing activities and utilisation of the technology budget.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   10 of 67


             mitigation of technology risks who do not engage in day-to-day technology
            operations.

S  8.12   For the purpose of paragraph 8.11 and all other requirements applicable to
            large financial institutions under this policy document, each financial institution
             shall conduct a self-assessment on whether it is a large financial institution in
           accordance with the definition in paragraph 5.2. The self-assessment shall
            take into account–
              (a) the complexity of the financial institution’s operations, having particular
               regard to the interconnectedness of its operations with other financial
                   institutions, customers and counterparties that are driven by technology;
              (b) the number and size of the financial institution’s significant business lines
                together with its market share4 (e.g. in terms of assets, liabilities, revenue
             and premiums);
              (c)  the number of subsidiaries, branches and agents; and
              (d) other business considerations that could give rise to technology risk.

S  8.13   Notwithstanding the self-assessment  in paragraph  8.12, the Bank may
           designate a financial  institution as a large financial  institution and such
             financial institutions shall comply with all requirements in this policy document
            applicable to a large financial institution.


   9     Technology Risk Management


S   9.1   A financial institution must ensure that the TRMF is an integral part of the
             financial institution’s enterprise risk management framework (ERM).

S   9.2    The TRMF must include the following:
              (a)  clear definition of technology risk;
              (b)  clear responsibilities assigned for the management of technology risk at
                   different levels and across functions, with appropriate governance and
                 reporting arrangements;
              (c)  the identification of technology risks to which the financial institution is
               exposed,  including  risks  from  the  adoption  of new  or  emerging
                technology;
              (d)  risk classification of all information assets/systems based on its criticality;
              (e)  risk measurement and assessment approaches and methodologies;
                  (f)   risk controls and mitigations; and
              (g)  continuous monitoring to timely detect and address any material risks.

S   9.3   A  financial  institution  must  establish  an  independent  enterprise-wide
           technology risk management function which is responsible for—



      4 Size is an indicator of the potential systemic impact that any failure or breach of the financial institution’s
     IT systems may have on the broader financial system. When determining the significance of its size, the
      financial institution shall consider the extent to which the broader market segment may be unable to
    access relevant financial services in the event of a disruption to its systems. It should also consider the
     extent to which the operations of other institutions may be disrupted due to a reliance on services
     provided by the financial institution that may not be immediately substitutable.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   11 of 67


              (a)  implementing the TRMF and CRF;
              (b)  advising on critical technology projects and ensuring critical issues that
            may have an impact on the financial  institution’s risk tolerance are
               adequately deliberated or escalated in a timely manner; and
              (c)  providing independent views to the board and senior management on
                   third party assessments5, where necessary.

S   9.4   A financial institution must designate a Chief Information Security Officer
           (CISO), by whatever name called, to be responsible for the technology risk
         management function of the financial institution. The financial institution must
           ensure that the CISO has sufficient authority, independence and resources6.
          The CISO shall—
              (a) be independent from day-to-day technology operations;
              (b) keep apprised of current and emerging technology risks which could
                  potentially affect the financial institution’s risk profile; and
              (c)  be appropriately certified.

S   9.5    The CISO is responsible for ensuring the financial institution’s information
           assets and technologies are adequately protected, which includes—
             (a)  formulating appropriate policies for the effective implementation of TRMF
             and CRF;
             (b)  enforcing  compliance  with  these  policies,  frameworks  and  other
                technology-related regulatory requirements; and
              (c)  advising senior management on technology risk and security matters,
                 including developments in the financial institution’s technology security
                   risk profile in relation to its business and operations.

   10    Technology Operations Management

   Technology Project Management

S  10.1   A financial institution must establish appropriate governance requirements
          commensurate  with  the  risk  and  complexity7  of  technology  projects
           undertaken. This shall include project oversight roles and responsibilities,
             authority and reporting structures, and  risk assessments throughout the
             project life cycle.

S  10.2   The risk assessments shall identify and address the key risks arising from the
           implementation of technology projects. These include the risks that could


      5 Relevant third party assessments may include the Data Centre Risk Assessment (DCRA), Network
     Resilience and Risk Assessment (NRA) and independent assurance for introduction of new or enhanced
      digital services.
      6 A financial institution’s CISO may take guidance from the expertise of a group-level CISO, in or outside
      of Malaysia, and may also hold other roles and responsibilities. Such designated CISO shall be
     accountable for and serve as the point of contact with the Bank on the financial institution's technology-
     related matters, including managing entity-specific risks, supporting prompt incident response and
     reporting to the financial institution’s board.
      7 For example, large-scale integration projects or those involving critical systems should be subject to
    more stringent project governance requirements such as more frequent reporting to the board and senior
    management, more experienced project managers and sponsors, more frequent milestone reviews and
     independent quality assurance at major project approval stages.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   12 of 67


            threaten successful project implementation and the risks that a project failure
                will lead  to a broader impact on  the  financial  institution's  operational
              capabilities. At a minimum, due regard shall be given to the following areas:
              (a)  the adequacy and competency of resources including those of the vendor
                  to effectively implement the project. This shall also take into consideration
                the number, size and duration of significant technology projects already
               undertaken concurrently by the financial institution;
              (b)  the complexity of systems to be implemented such as the use of unproven
                 or unfamiliar technology and the corresponding risks of integrating the
            new  technology  into  existing  systems, managing  multiple  vendor-
                 proprietary technologies, large-scale data migration or cleansing efforts
             and extensive system customisation;
              (c)  the adequacy and configuration of security controls throughout the project
                        life cycle to mitigate cybersecurity breaches or exposure of confidential
                 data;
              (d)  the comprehensiveness of the user requirement specifications to mitigate
                  risks from extensive changes in project scope or deficiencies in meeting
               business needs;
              (e)  the robustness of system and user testing strategies to reduce risks of
               undiscovered system faults and functionality errors;
                  (f)  the appropriateness of system deployment and fallback strategies to
                 mitigate risks from prolonged system stability issues; and
              (g)  the adequacy of disaster recovery operational readiness following the
                implementation of new or enhanced systems.

S  10.3   The board and senior management must receive and review timely reports on
            the management  of these  risks on an ongoing  basis  throughout  the
           implementation of significant projects.

   System Development and Acquisition

G  10.4  A financial institution should establish an enterprise architecture framework
          (EAF) that provides a holistic view of technology throughout the financial
               institution. The EAF is an overall technical design and high-level plan that
           describes the financial institution’s technology infrastructure, systems’ inter-
             connectivity and security controls. The EAF facilitates the conceptual design
          and maintenance of the network infrastructure, related technology controls and
              policies, and serves as a foundation on which financial institutions plan and
             structure system development and acquisition strategies to meet business
            goals.

S  10.5  A financial institution must establish clear risk management policies and
            practices for the key phases of the system development life cycle (SDLC)
          encompassing system design, development, testing, deployment, change
          management,  maintenance  and  decommissioning.  Such  policies  and
            practices must also embed security and relevant enterprise architecture
            considerations into the SDLC to ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability





     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   13 of 67


             of data8. The policies and practices must be reviewed at least once every three
           years  to ensure  that they remain  relevant  to  the  financial  institution’s
           environment.

G  10.6  A financial institution is encouraged to deploy automated tools for software
           development,  testing, software deployment, change management, code
           scanning and software version control to support more secure systems
           development.

S  10.7  A financial institution shall consider the need for diversity9 in technology to
          enhance  resilience by  ensuring  critical systems  infrastructure  are  not
            excessively exposed to similar technology risks.

S  10.8  A financial institution must establish a sound methodology for rigorous system
             testing prior to deployment. The testing shall ensure that the system meets
           user requirements and performs robustly. Where sensitive test data is used,
            the financial institution must ensure proper authorisation procedures and
          adequate measures to prevent their unauthorised disclosure are in place.

G  10.9   The scope of system testing referred to in paragraph 10.8 should include unit
              testing,  integration  testing, user acceptance  testing,  application  security
              testing, stress and regression testing, and exception and negative testing,
          where applicable.

S  10.10  A financial institution must ensure any changes to the source code of critical
          systems are subject to adequate source code reviews to ensure code is secure
          and was developed in line with recognised coding practices prior to introducing
          any system changes.

S  10.11  In relation to critical systems that are developed and maintained by vendors, a
             financial institution must ensure the source code continues to be readily
           accessible and secured from unauthorised access.

S  10.12  A financial institution shall physically segregate the production environment
           from the development and testing environment for critical systems. Where a
             financial institution is relying on a cloud environment, the financial institution
             shall ensure that these environments are not running on the same virtual host.

S  10.13  A financial institution must establish appropriate procedures to independently
           review and approve system changes. The financial  institution must also
            establish  and  test  contingency  plans  in  the  event  of  unsuccessful
           implementation of material changes to minimise any business disruption.

S  10.14  Where a financial institution’s IT systems are managed by third party service
            providers, the financial institution shall ensure, including through contractual
             obligations, that the third party service providers provide sufficient notice to the


      8 The security considerations shall include ensuring appropriate segregation of duties throughout the
    SDLC.
      9 Diversity  in technology may include the use of  different technology architecture designs and
     applications, technology platforms and network infrastructure.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   14 of 67


             financial institution before any changes are undertaken that may impact the IT
           systems.

S  10.15 When decommissioning critical systems, a financial institution must ensure
           minimal adverse impact on customers and business operations. This includes
            establishing and testing contingency plans in the event of unsuccessful system
           decommissioning.

    Cryptography

S  10.16  A financial institution must establish a robust and resilient cryptography policy
             to promote the adoption of strong cryptographic controls for protection of
            important data and information. This policy, at a minimum, shall address
           requirements for:
              (a)  the adoption of industry standards for encryption algorithms, message
                 authentication, hash functions, digital signatures and random number
                 generation;
              (b)  the adoption of robust and secure processes in managing cryptographic
              key lifecycles which include generation, distribution, renewal, usage,
                 storage, recovery, revocation and destruction;
              (c)  the periodic review, at least every three years, of existing cryptographic
               standards  and  algorithms  in  critical  systems,  external  linked  or
                 transactional customer-facing  applications  to prevent  exploitation  of
             weakened algorithms or protocols; and
              (d)  the development and testing of compromise-recovery plans in the event
                  of a cryptographic key compromise. This must set out the escalation
                process, procedures for keys regeneration, interim measures, changes to
                business-as-usual protocols and containment strategies or options to
               minimise the impact of a compromise.

S  10.17  A financial institution shall ensure clear senior-level roles and responsibilities
           are assigned for the effective implementation of the cryptographic policy.

S  10.18  A  financial  institution  must  conduct due  diligence and  evaluate  the
            cryptographic controls associated with the technology used in order to protect
            the confidentiality, integrity, authentication, authorisation and non-repudiation
             of information. Where a  financial  institution does not generate  its own
            encryption keys, the financial institution shall undertake appropriate measures
             to ensure robust controls and processes are in place to manage encryption
            keys. Where this involves a reliance on third party assessments10, the financial
              institution shall consider whether such reliance is consistent with the financial
              institution’s risk appetite and tolerance. A financial institution must also give
          due regard to the system resources required to support the cryptographic
            controls and the risk of reduced network traffic visibility of data that has been
            encrypted.





      10 For example, where the financial institution is not able to perform its own validation on embedded
     cryptographic controls due to the proprietary nature of the software or confidentiality constraints.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   15 of 67


S  10.19  A financial institution must ensure cryptographic controls are based on the
             effective implementation of suitable cryptographic protocols. The protocols
             shall include secret and public cryptographic key protocols, both of which shall
              reflect a high degree  of  protection  to the applicable secret or  private
            cryptographic keys. The selection of such protocols must be based on
           recognised international standards and tested accordingly. Commensurate
            with the level of risk, secret cryptographic key and private-cryptographic key
           storage and encryption/decryption computation must be undertaken  in a
            protected environment, supported by a hardware security module (HSM) or
             trusted execution environment (TEE).

S  10.20 A financial institution shall store public cryptographic keys in a certificate issued
          by a certificate authority as appropriate to the level of risk. Such certificates
           associated with customers shall be issued by recognised certificate authorities.
         The financial institution must ensure that the implementation of authentication
          and signature protocols using such certificates are subject to strong protection
             to ensure that the use of private cryptographic keys corresponding to the user
             certificates are  legally binding and  irrefutable. The  initial issuance and
          subsequent renewal of such certificates must be consistent with industry best
            practices and applicable legal/regulatory specifications.

    Data Centre Resilience

    Data Centre Infrastructure

S  10.21  A financial institution must specify the resilience and availability objectives of
                its data centres which are aligned with  its business needs. The network
             infrastructure must be designed to be resilient, secure and scalable. Potential
           data centre failures or disruptions must not significantly degrade the delivery
             of its financial services or impede its internal operations.

S  10.22  A financial institution must ensure production data centres are concurrently
            maintainable. This includes ensuring  that production data centres have
           redundant capacity components and distribution paths serving the computer
           equipment.

S  10.23   In addition to the requirement in paragraph 10.22, large financial institutions
           are  also  required  to  ensure  recovery  data  centres  are  concurrently
            maintainable.

S  10.24  A financial institution shall host critical systems in a dedicated space intended
              for production data centre usage. The dedicated space must be physically
           secured from unauthorised access and is not located in a disaster-prone area.
        A financial institution must also ensure there is no single point of failure (SPOF)
              in the design and connectivity for critical components of the production data
            centres,   including  hardware  components,   electrical    utility,  thermal
         management and data centre infrastructure. A financial institution must also
           ensure adequate maintenance, and holistic and continuous monitoring of
           these critical components with timely alerts on faults and indicators of potential
            issues.



     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   16 of 67



S  10.25  A financial institution is required to appoint a technically competent external
            service provider to carry out a production data centre resilience and risk
          assessment (DCRA) and set proportionate controls aligned with the financial
              institution’s risk appetite. The assessment must consider all major risks and
           determine the current level of resilience of the production data centre. A
             financial institution must ensure the assessment is conducted at least once
           every three years or whenever there is a material change in the data centre
             infrastructure, whichever is earlier. The assessment shall, at a minimum,
            include a consideration of whether the requirements in paragraphs 10.22 to
           10.24 have been adhered to. For data centres managed by third party service
            providers, a financial institution may rely on independent third party assurance
            reports provided such reliance is consistent with the financial institution’s risk
            appetite and tolerance, and the independent assurance has considered similar
             risks and meets the expectations in this paragraph for conducting the DCRA.
          The designated board-level committee must deliberate the outcome of the
           assessment.

    Data Centre Operations

S  10.26  A financial institution must ensure its capacity needs are well-planned and
         managed with due regard to business growth plans. This includes ensuring
          adequate system storage, central processing unit (CPU) power, memory and
           network bandwidth. A financial institution shall involve both the technology
            stakeholders and the relevant business stakeholders within the financial
              institution in its development and implementation of capacity management
            plans.

S  10.27 A financial institution must establish real-time monitoring mechanisms to track
            capacity utilisation and performance of key processes and services11. These
           monitoring mechanisms shall be capable of providing timely and actionable
             alerts to administrators.

S  10.28  A financial institution must segregate incompatible activities in the data centre
            operations environment to prevent any unauthorised activity12. In the case
          where vendors’ or programmers’ access to the production environment is
           necessary, these activities must be properly authorised and monitored.

S  10.29  A financial institution must establish adequate control procedures for its data
            centre operations, including the deployment of relevant automated tools for
           batch  processing management  to  ensure  timely and  accurate  batch
           processes. These  control procedures  shall also include procedures  for
           implementing changes in the production system, error handling as well as
         management of other exceptional conditions.

S  10.30  A financial institution is required to undertake an independent risk assessment
             of its end-to-end backup storage and delivery management to ensure that

      11 For example, batch runs and backup processes for the financial institution’s application systems and
      infrastructure.
      12 For example, system development activities must be segregated from data centre operations.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   17 of 67


             existing controls are adequate in protecting sensitive data at  all times. A
             financial institution must also maintain a sufficient number of backup copies of
               critical data, the updated version of the operating system software, production
           programs, system utilities, all master and transaction files and event logs for
           recovery purposes. Backup media must be stored in an environmentally
           secure and access-controlled backup site.

G  10.31   In regard to paragraph 10.30, a financial institution should also adopt the
            controls as specified in Appendix 1 or their equivalent to secure the storage
          and transportation of sensitive data in removable media.

S  10.32  Where there is a reasonable expectation for immediate delivery of service to
           customers or dealings with counterparties, a financial institution must ensure
             that the relevant critical systems are designed for high availability with a
           cumulative unplanned downtime affecting the interface with customers or
            counterparties of not more than 4 hours on a rolling 12 months basis and a
         maximum tolerable downtime of 120 minutes per incident.

   Network Resilience

S  10.33  A financial institution must design a reliable, scalable and secure enterprise
           network that is able to support its business activities, including future growth
            plans.

S  10.34 A financial institution must ensure the network services for its critical systems
           are reliable and have no SPOF in order to protect the critical systems against
             potential network faults and cyber threats13.

S  10.35 A financial institution must establish real-time network bandwidth monitoring
          processes and corresponding network service resilience metrics to flag any
           over  utilisation  of bandwidth and system  disruptions due  to bandwidth
           congestion and network faults. This includes traffic analysis to detect trends
          and anomalies.

S  10.36  A financial institution must ensure network services supporting critical systems
           are designed and implemented to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and
              availability of data.

S  10.37  A financial institution must establish and maintain a network design blueprint
             identifying all of its internal and external network interfaces and connectivity.
          The blueprint must highlight both physical and logical connectivity between
           network components and network segmentations.

S  10.38  A financial institution must ensure sufficient and relevant network device logs
           are retained for investigations and forensic purposes for at least three years.





      13 Measures implemented may include component redundancy, service diversity and alternate network
     paths.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   18 of 67


S  10.39  A financial institution must implement appropriate safeguards to minimise the
              risk of a system compromise in one entity affecting other entities within the
            group. Safeguards implemented may include establishing logical network
           segmentation for the financial institution from other entities within the group.

S  10.40  A financial institution is required to appoint a technically competent external
            service provider to carry out regular network resilience and risk assessments
          (NRA) and set proportionate controls aligned with  its  risk appetite. The
          assessment must be conducted at least once in three years or whenever there
               is a material change in the network design. The assessment must consider all
           major risks and determine the current level of resilience. This shall include an
          assessment of the financial institution’s adherence to the requirements in
           paragraphs 10.33 to 10.39. The designated board-level committee must
            deliberate the outcome of the assessment.

    Third Party Service Provider Management

S  10.41  The board and senior management of the financial institution must exercise
             effective oversight and address associated risks when engaging third party
            service providers14 for critical technology functions and systems. Engagement
             of  third party service providers, including engagements  for independent
           assessments, does  not  in any way reduce  or  eliminate  the  principal
             accountabilities and responsibilities of financial institutions for the security and
               reliability of technology functions and systems.

S  10.42  A financial institution must conduct proper due diligence on the third party
            service provider’s competency, system infrastructure and financial viability as
            relevant prior to engaging its services. In addition, an assessment shall be
         made of the third party service provider’s capabilities in managing the following
             specific (a) data risks leakage  such  as  unauthorised  disclosure  of  customer and
                counterparty information;
              (b)  service disruption including capacity performance;
              (c)  processing errors;
              (d)  physical security breaches;
              (e)  cyber threats;
                  (f)  over-reliance on key personnel;
              (g)  mishandling  of  confidential  information  pertaining  to  the  financial
                    institution or its customers in the course of transmission, processing or
                storage of such information; and
              (h)  concentration risk.

S  10.43  A financial institution must establish service-level agreements (SLA) when
           engaging third party service providers. At a minimum, the SLA shall contain
            the following:
              (a)  access rights for the regulator and any party appointed by the financial
                    institution to examine any activity or entity of the financial institution. This

      14 Financial institutions must adhere to the requirements in the Policy Document on Outsourcing for
    engagements with third party service providers that meet the definition of outsourcing arrangement as
     specified in the policy document.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   19 of 67


                  shall include access to any record, file or data of the financial institution,
                 including management information and the minutes of all consultative and
                decision-making processes;
              (b)  requirements for the service provider to provide sufficient prior notice to
                  financial institutions of any sub-contracting which is substantial;
              (c)  a written undertaking by the service provider on compliance with secrecy
                 provisions under relevant legislation. The SLA shall further clearly provide
                   for the service provider to be bound by confidentiality provisions stipulated
               under the contract even after the engagement has ended;
              (d)  arrangements  for  disaster  recovery and backup  capability, where
                 applicable;
              (e)  critical system availability; and
                  (f)  arrangements to secure business continuity  in the event of  exit or
                 termination of the service provider.

S  10.44  A financial institution must ensure its ability to regularly review the SLA with its
              third party service providers to take into account the latest security and
            technological developments in relation to the services provided.

S  10.45  A financial institution must ensure its third party service providers comply with
                all relevant regulatory requirements prescribed in this policy document15.

S  10.46  A financial institution must ensure data residing in third party service providers
           are recoverable in a timely manner. The financial institution shall ensure clearly
            defined arrangements with the third party service provider are in place to
               facilitate the financial institution’s immediate notification and timely updates to
            the Bank and other relevant regulatory bodies in the event of a cyber-incident.

S  10.47  A financial institution must ensure the storage of its data is at least logically
           segregated from the other clients of the third party service provider. There shall
          be proper controls over and periodic review of the access provided to
            authorised users.

S  10.48  A financial institution must ensure any critical system hosted by third party
            service  providers have  strong recovery and resumption  capability and
            provisions to facilitate an orderly exit in the event of failure or unsatisfactory
           performance by the third party service provider.

   Cloud Services

S  10.49 A financial institution must fully understand the inherent risk of adopting cloud
            services. In  this regard, a financial  institution  is required to conduct a
          comprehensive risk assessment prior to cloud adoption which considers the
            inherent architecture of cloud services that leverages on the sharing of
           resources and services across multiple tenants over the  Internet. The
          assessment must specifically address risks associated with the following:
              (a) sophistication of the deployment model;


      15 This includes specific requirements for system development and acquisition, data centre operations,
     network resilience, technology security and cybersecurity, wherever applicable.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   20 of 67


              (b) migration of existing systems to cloud infrastructure;
              (c) location of cloud infrastructure including potential geo-political risks and
                 legal risks that may impede compliance with any legal or regulatory
                requirements;
              (d) multi-tenancy or data co-mingling;
              (e) vendor lock-in and application portability or interoperability;
                  (f)  ability to customise security configurations of the cloud infrastructure to
              ensure a high level of data and technology system protection;
              (g) exposure to cyber-attacks via cloud service providers;
              (h) termination of a cloud service provider including the ability to secure the
                  financial institution’s data following the termination;
                   (i)  demarcation of  responsibilities,  limitations and  liability of the cloud
                service provider; and
                   (j)  ability to meet regulatory requirements and international standards on
               cloud computing on a continuing basis.

G  10.50  For critical systems hosted on public cloud, a financial institution should
            consider common key risks and control measures as specified in Appendix
            10. A financial institution that relies on alternative risk management practices
             that depart from the measures outlined in Appendix 10 should be prepared to
            explain and demonstrate to the Bank that these alternative practices are at
             least as effective as, or superior to, the measures in Appendix 10.

S  10.51  A financial institution must implement appropriate safeguards on customer
          and counterparty information and proprietary data when using cloud services
             to protect against unauthorised disclosure and access. This shall include
            retaining ownership, control and management of  all data pertaining to
          customer and counterparty information, proprietary data and services hosted
          on the cloud, including the relevant cryptographic keys management.


   Access Control

S  10.52  A financial institution must implement an appropriate access controls policy
              for the identification, authentication and authorisation of users (internal and
            external users such as third party service providers). This must address
           both  logical  and  physical  technology  access  controls  which  are
          commensurate with the level of risk of unauthorised access to its technology
           systems.

G  10.53  In observing paragraph 10.52, a financial institution should consider the
            following principles in its access control policy:
             (a)  adopt a “deny all” access control policy for users by default unless
                    explicitly authorised;
             (b)  employ “least privilege” access rights or on a ‘need-to-have’ basis
              where  only  the minimum  sufficient  permissions  are  granted  to
                  legitimate users to perform their roles;
              (c)  employ time-bound access rights which restrict access to a specific
                period including access rights granted to service providers;




     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   21 of 67


             (d)  employ segregation of incompatible functions where no single person is
                responsible  for an entire operation that may provide the  ability to
                independently modify, circumvent, and disable system security features.
                This may include a combination of functions such as:
                          (i)   system development and technology operations;
                           (ii)   security administration and system administration; and
                            (iii)  network operation and network security;
             (e)  employ dual control functions which require two or more persons to
               execute an activity;
                 (f)   adopt stronger authentication for critical activities including for remote
                access;
             (g)   limit and control the use of the same user ID for multiple concurrent
                sessions;
             (h)   limit and control the sharing of user ID and passwords across multiple
                 users; and
                  (i)   control the use of generic user ID naming conventions in favour of more
                 personally identifiable IDs.

S  10.54  A financial institution must employ robust authentication processes to ensure
            the authenticity of identities in use. Authentication mechanisms shall be
          commensurate with the criticality of the functions and adopt at least one or
          more of these three basic authentication factors, namely, something the user
          knows (e.g. password, PIN), something the user possesses (e.g. smart card,
             security device) and something the user is (e.g. biometric characteristics,
          such as a fingerprint or retinal pattern).

S  10.55  A  financial  institution  shall  periodically review and adapt  its password
            practices to enhance resilience against evolving attacks. This includes the
             effective and secure generation of passwords. There must be appropriate
            controls in place to check the strength of the passwords created.

G  10.56  Authentication methods that depend on more than one factor typically are
          more difficult to compromise than a single factor system. In view of this,
             financial  institutions are encouraged to properly design and implement
             (especially in high-risk or ‘single sign-on’ systems) multi-factor authentication
          (MFA) that are more reliable and provide stronger fraud deterrents.

G  10.57  A financial institution is encouraged to adopt dedicated user domains for
            selected critical functions, separate from the broader enterprise-wide user
            authentication system.

S  10.58  A financial institution must establish a user access matrix to outline access
              rights, user roles or profiles, and the authorising and approving authorities.
          The access matrix must be periodically reviewed and updated.

S  10.59  A financial institution must ensure—
             (a)  access controls to enterprise-wide systems are effectively managed and
                monitored; and





     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   22 of 67


             (b)  user activities in critical systems are logged for audit and investigations.
                   Activity logs must be maintained for at least three years and regularly
               reviewed in a timely manner.

S  10.60   In fulfilling the requirement under paragraph 10.59, large financial institutions
           are required to—
              (a)  deploy an identity access management system to effectively manage
             and monitor user access to enterprise-wide systems; and
              (b)  deploy automated audit tools to flag any anomalies.

    Patch and End-of-Life System Management

S  10.61  A financial institution must ensure that critical systems are not running on
           outdated systems with known security vulnerabilities or end-of-life (EOL)
           technology systems. In this regard, a financial institution must clearly assign
             responsibilities to identified functions:
              (a)  to continuously monitor and implement latest patch releases in a timely
              manner; and
              (b)  identify critical technology systems that are approaching EOL for further
                remedial action.

S  10.62  A large financial institution must establish dedicated resources to perform the
            functions under paragraph 10.61.

S  10.63  A financial institution must establish a patch and EOL management framework
           which addresses among others the following requirements:
              (a)  identification and risk assessment of all technology assets for potential
                   vulnerabilities arising from undeployed patches or EOL systems;
              (b)  conduct of compatibility testing for critical patches;
              (c)  specification of turnaround time for deploying patches according to the
                 severity of the patches; and
              (d)  adherence to the workflow for end-to-end patch deployment processes
                 including approval, monitoring and tracking of activities.

    Security of Digital Services

S  10.64  A financial institution must implement robust technology security controls in
            providing digital services which assure the following:
              (a)  confidentiality and integrity of customer and counterparty information and
                 transactions;
              (b)  reliability of services delivered via channels and devices with minimum
                 disruption to services;
              (c)  proper  authentication  of  users  or  devices  and  authorisation  of
                 transactions;
              (d)  sufficient audit trail and monitoring of anomalous transactions;
              (e)  ability to identify and revert to the recovery point prior to incident or service
                  disruption; and
                  (f)  strong physical control and logical control measures.





     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   23 of 67


S  10.65  A financial institution must implement controls to authenticate and monitor all
             financial transactions. These controls, at a minimum, must be effective in
             mitigating  man-in-the-middle  attacks,  transaction  fraud,  phishing  and
          compromise of application systems and information.

S  10.66  A financial  institution must implement additional controls to authenticate
           devices and users, authorise transactions and support non-repudiation and
             accountability for high-risk transactions or transactions above RM10,000.
          These measures must include, at a minimum, the following:
              (a)  ensure transactions are performed over secured channels such as the
                   latest version of Transport Layer Security (TLS);
              (b)  both client and host application systems must encrypt all confidential
                 information prior to transmission over the network;
              (c)  adopt MFA for transactions;
              (d)   if OTP is used as a second factor, it must be dynamic and time-bound;
              (e)  request users to verify details of the transaction prior to execution;
                  (f)  ensure secure user and session handling management;
              (g) be able  to capture the  location  of  origin and  destination  of each
                 transaction;
              (h)  implement strong mutual authentication between the users’ end-point
                devices and financial institutions’ servers, such as the use of the latest
                version of Extended Validation SSL certificate (EV SSL); and
                   (i)  provide timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of
                the nature of the transaction.

S  10.67  A financial institution must ensure the MFA solution used to authenticate
             financial transactions are adequately secure, which includes the following:
              (a)  binding of the MFA solution to the customer’s account;
              (b)  activation of MFA must be subject to verification by the financial institution;
             and
              (c)  timely notification to customers of any activation of and changes to the
           MFA solution via the customers’ verified communication channel.

S  10.68  A financial institution must deploy MFA technology and channels that are more
           secure than unencrypted short messaging service (SMS).

S  10.69  A financial institution shall deploy MFA solutions with stronger security controls
              for open third party fund transfer and open payment transactions with a value
             of RM10,000 and above.

S  10.70  A financial institution must ensure that the security controls of MFA solutions
            includes adherence to the following requirements:
              (a)  the MFA solution is resistant to interception or manipulation by any third
                 party throughout the authentication process;
              (b)  payer/sender must be made aware and prompted to confirm details of the
                   identified beneficiary and amount of the transaction;
              (c)  authentication code must be  initiated and generated  locally by the
               payer/sender using MFA;
              (d)  authentication code generated by payer/sender must be specific to the
               confirmed identified beneficiary and amount;



     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   24 of 67


              (e)  secure  underlying  technology must be  established  to ensure  the
                 authentication code accepted by the financial institution corresponds to
                the confirmed transaction details; and
                  (f)   notification must be provided to the payer/sender of the transaction.


S  10.71  Where a financial institution deploys OTP as part of its stronger or enhanced
        MFA solutions, the following features must be implemented:
              (a)  binding of the transaction details to the OTP generated by the device (e.g.
                 beneficiary account number, amount of transaction);
              (b)  generation of the OTP from the customer’s device and not from the bank’s
                 server; and
              (c)  requiring the customer to manually enter the generated OTP into the
                  application.

S  10.72  For financial transactions below RM10,000, a financial institution may decide
          on  proportionate  controls and  authentication methods  for  transactions
          assessed by the financial institution to be of low risk. In undertaking the
           assessment, the financial institution must establish a set of criteria or factors
             that reflect the nature, size and characteristics of a financial transaction. Such
               criteria or factors must be consistent with the financial institution’s risk appetite
          and tolerance. The  financial  institution must periodically review the  risk
          assessment criteria to ensure its continued relevance, having regard to the
              latest developments in cybersecurity risks and authentication technologies as
             well as fraud trends and incidents.

S  10.73  Where a financial institution decides not to adopt MFA for financial transactions
             that are assessed to be of low risk, the financial institution must nevertheless
           implement adequate safeguards for such transactions which shall include at a
         minimum the following measures:
              (a)  set appropriate limits on a per-transaction basis, and on a cumulative
                 basis;
              (b)  provide a convenient means for customers to reduce the limits described
                   in paragraph (a) or to opt for MFA;
              (c)  provide a convenient means for its customers to temporarily suspend their
               account in the event of suspected fraud; and
              (d)  provide its customers with adequate notice of the safeguards set out in
               paragraphs (a) to (c).

S  10.74  A financial institution must ensure sufficient and relevant digital service logs
           are retained for investigations and forensic purposes for at least three years.

S  10.75  A financial institution must ensure that critical online payments and banking16
            services have high availability with reasonable response time to customer
             actions.

S  10.76  A financial institution must ensure that the use of more advanced technology
             to authenticate and deliver digital services such as biometrics, tokenisation



      16 For example, Internet and mobile banking services.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   25 of 67


          and contactless communication17 comply  with  internationally recognised
           standards where available. The technology must be resilient against cyber
             threats18 including malware, phishing or data leakage.

S  10.77  A financial institution must undertake a comprehensive risk assessment of the
          advanced technologies and the algorithms deployed in its digital services.
            Algorithms must be regularly reviewed and validated to ensure they remain
            appropriate and accurate. Where third party software is used, a financial
              institution may rely on relevant independent reports provided such reliance is
            consistent with the financial institution’s risk appetite and tolerance, and the
            nature of digital services provided by the financial institution which leverage on
            the technologies and algorithms.

S  10.78  A financial institution must ensure authentication processes using biometric
           technology are secure, highly resistant to spoofing and have a minimal false
           acceptance rate to ensure confidentiality, integrity and non-repudiation of
             transactions.

S  10.79  A financial institution must perform continuous surveillance to assess the
             vulnerability of the operating system and the relevant technology platform used
              for its digital delivery channels to security breaches and implement appropriate
           corresponding  safeguards.  At a minimum, a  financial  institution must
           implement  sufficient  logical and  physical  safeguards  for  the  following
            channels:
              (a)  self-service terminal (SST);
              (b)  non-cash SST;
              (c)  Internet banking; and
              (d)  mobile application and devices.
             In view  of  the  evolving  threat  landscape,  these  safeguards must be
            continuously reviewed and updated to protect against fraud and to secure the
              confidentiality and integrity of customer and counterparty information and
             transactions.

G  10.80   In fulfilling paragraph 10.79, a financial institution should adopt the controls
            specified  in the following Appendices  for the respective  digital  delivery
            channel:
             (a) Appendix 2: Control Measures on Self-Service Terminals (SST);
             (b) Appendix 3: Control Measures on Internet Banking; and
              (c) Appendix 4: Control Measures on Mobile Application and Devices.

   11    Cybersecurity Management

   Cyber Risk Management




      17 Such as Quick Response (QR) code, Bar Code, Near Field Communication (NFC), Radio Frequency
      Identification (RFID), Wearables.
      18 For example, in respect of QR payments, financial institutions shall implement safeguards within its
     respective mobile applications to detect and mitigate risks relating to QR code that may contain malware
     or links to phishing websites.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   26 of 67


S  11.1   A financial institution must ensure that there is an enterprise-wide focus on
             effective cyber risk management to reflect the collective responsibility of
           business and technology lines for managing cyber risks.

S  11.2  A  financial  institution must develop a CRF which  clearly articulates the
              institution’s governance  for managing  cyber  risks,  its  cyber  resilience
            objectives and its risk tolerance, with due regard to the evolving cyber threat
           environment.  Objectives  of  the CRF  shall  include ensuring  operational
             resilience against extreme but plausible cyber-attacks. The framework must be
           able to support the effective identification, protection, detection, response, and
           recovery (IPDRR) of systems and data hosted on-premise or by third party
            service providers from internal and external cyber-attacks.

S  11.3   The CRF must consist of, at a minimum, the following elements:
              (a)  development of an institutional understanding of the overall cyber risk
                context in relation to the financial institution’s business and operations, its
               exposure to cyber risks and current cybersecurity posture;
              (b)  identification,  classification  and   prioritisation  of   critical  systems,
                 information, assets and  interconnectivity  (with  internal and external
                  parties) to obtain a complete and accurate view of the financial institution’s
                 information assets, critical systems, interdependencies and cyber risk
                    profile;
              (c)  identification of cybersecurity threats and countermeasures including
              measures to contain reputational damage that can undermine confidence
                   in the financial institution;
              (d)  layered  (defense-in-depth)  security  controls  to  protect   its  data,
                  infrastructure and assets against evolving threats;
              (e)  timely  detection   of  cybersecurity   incidents  through  continuous
                 surveillance and monitoring;
                  (f)  detailed incident handling policies and procedures and a crisis response
             management playbook to support the swift recovery from cyber-incidents
             and contain any damage resulting from a cybersecurity breach; and
              (g)  policies and procedures for timely and secure information sharing and
                 collaboration with other financial institutions and participants in financial
               market infrastructure to strengthen cyber resilience.

S  11.4    In addition to the requirements in paragraph 11.3, a large financial institution
               is required to—
             (a) implement a  centralised automated  tracking system  to manage  its
               technology asset inventory; and
             (b) establish a dedicated in-house cyber risk management function to manage
               cyber  risks or emerging cyber threats. The cyber  risk management
                 function shall be responsible for the following:
                          (i)   perform detailed analysis on cyber threats, provide risk assessments
                  on potential cyber-attacks and ensure timely review and escalation
                        of all high-risk cyber threats to senior management and the board;
                  and
                           (ii)   proactively identify potential vulnerabilities including those arising
                    from infrastructure hosted with third party service providers through




     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   27 of 67


                     the simulation of sophisticated “Red Team” attacks on its current
                       security controls.

    Cybersecurity Operations

S  11.5  A financial institution must establish clear responsibilities for cybersecurity
            operations which shall include implementing appropriate mitigating measures
              in the financial institution’s conduct of business that correspond to the following
          phases of the cyber-attack lifecycle:
              (a)  reconnaissance;
             (b)  weaponisation;
              (c)  delivery;
             (d)  exploitation;
             (e)  installation;
                 (f)  command and control; and
             (g)  exfiltration.

G  11.6   Where relevant, a financial institution should adopt the control measures on
            cybersecurity as specified in Appendix 5 to enhance its resilience to cyber-
             attacks.

S  11.7  A financial institution must deploy effective tools to support the continuous and
            proactive monitoring and timely detection  of anomalous  activities  in  its
           technology infrastructure. The scope of monitoring must cover  all  critical
          systems including the supporting infrastructure.

S  11.8  A  financial  institution  must  ensure  that   its  cybersecurity  operations
            continuously prevent and detect any potential compromise of  its security
            controls or weakening of its security posture. For large financial institutions,
              this must include performing a quarterly vulnerability assessment of external
          and internal network components that support all critical systems.

S  11.9  A financial institution must conduct annual intelligence-led penetration tests on
                its internal and external network infrastructure as well as critical systems
            including web, mobile and all external-facing applications. The penetration
             testing shall reflect extreme but plausible cyber-attack scenarios based on
          emerging and evolving threat scenarios. A financial institution must engage
             suitably accredited penetration testers and service providers to perform this
             function.

S  11.10   In addition to the requirement in paragraph 11.9, a large financial institution
          must undertake independent compromise assessments on the technology
             infrastructure of its critical systems at least annually and ensure the results of
          such assessments are escalated to senior management and the board in a
             timely manner.

S  11.11  A financial institution must establish standard operating procedures (SOP) for
             vulnerability assessment and penetration testing (VAPT) activities. The SOP
          must outline the relevant control measures including ensuring the external




     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   28 of 67


            penetration testers are accompanied on-premises at all times, validating the
           event logs and ensuring data purging.

S  11.12  A financial institution must ensure the outcome of the penetration testing
            exercise is properly documented and escalated in a timely manner to senior
         management to identify and monitor the implementation of relevant remedial
             actions.

    Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)

S  11.13  A financial institution must ensure its technology systems and infrastructure,
            including  critical systems outsourced to or hosted by third party service
            providers, are adequately protected against  all types  of DDoS attacks
             (including volumetric, protocol and application layer attacks) through the
             following measures:
              (a)  subscribing to DDoS mitigation services, which include automatic ‘clean
                  pipe’ services to filter and divert any potential malicious traffic away from
                the network bandwidth;
              (b)  regularly assessing the capability of the provider to expand network
               bandwidth on-demand including upstream provider capability, adequacy
                  of the provider’s incident response plan and its responsiveness to an
                  attack; and
              (c)  implementing mechanisms to mitigate against Domain Name Server
              (DNS) based layer attacks.

    Data Loss Prevention (DLP)

S  11.14  A financial institution must establish a clear DLP strategy and processes in
            order to ensure that proprietary and customer and counterparty information is
              identified, classified and secured. At a minimum, a financial institution must-
              (a)  ensure that data owners are accountable and responsible for identifying
             and appropriately classifying data;
              (b)  undertake a data discovery process prior to the development of a data
                   classification scheme and data inventory; and
              (c)  ensure that data accessible by third parties  is clearly identified and
                  policies must be implemented to safeguard and control third party access.
                This includes adequate contractual agreements to protect the interests of
                the financial institution and its customers.

S  11.15  A financial institution must design internal control procedures and implement
            appropriate technology in all applications and access points to enforce DLP
             policies and trigger any policy violations. The technology deployed must cover
            the following:
              (a)  data in-use – data being processed by IT resources;
              (b)  data in-motion – data being transmitted on the network; and
              (c)  data at-rest – data stored in storage mediums such as servers, backup
              media and databases.





     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   29 of 67


S  11.16  A financial institution must implement appropriate policies for the removal of
           data on technology equipment, mobile devices or storage media to prevent
           unauthorised access to data.

    Security Operations Centre (SOC)

S  11.17  A financial institution must ensure its SOC, whether managed in-house or by
              third  party  service  providers,  has  adequate  capabilities  for  proactive
            monitoring of its technology security posture. This shall enable the financial
              institution  to detect anomalous user or network  activities,  flag  potential
           breaches and  establish  the  appropriate response supported by  skilled
           resources based on the level of complexity of the alerts. The outcome of the
        SOC  activities  shall also inform the  financial  institution’s reviews  of  its
            cybersecurity posture and strategy.

S  11.18  The SOC must be able to perform the following functions:
              (a)  log collection and the implementation of an event correlation engine with
                parameter-driven use cases such as Security Information and Event
             Management (SIEM);
              (b)  incident coordination and response;
              (c)  vulnerability management;
              (d)  threat hunting;
              (e)  remediation functions including the ability to perform forensic artifact
                 handling, malware and implant analysis; and
                  (f)  provision of situational awareness to detect adversaries and threats
                 including threat intelligence analysis and operations and monitoring
                  indicators of compromise (IOC). This includes advanced behavioural
                 analysis to detect signature-less and file-less malware and to identify
               anomalies that may pose security threats including at endpoints and
               network layers.

S  11.19  A financial institution must ensure that the SOC provides a regular threat
          assessment report, which shall include, at a minimum, the following:
              (a)  trends and statistics of cyber events and incidents categorised by type of
                 attacks, target and source IP addresses, location of data centres and
                      criticality of applications; and
              (b)  intelligence  on  emerging  and  potential  threats  including  tactics,
                techniques and procedures (TTP).
           For large financial institutions, such reports shall be provided on a monthly
            basis.

S  11.20  A financial institution must subscribe to reputable threat intelligence services
             to identify emerging cyber threats, uncover new cyber-attack techniques and
           support the implementation of countermeasures.

S  11.21 A financial institution must ensure the following:
             (a)  the SOC is located in a physically secure environment with proper access
                  controls;
             (b)  the SOC operates on a 24x7 basis with disaster recovery capability to
               ensure continuous availability; and



     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   30 of 67


              (c)  the SOC has a holistic and end-to-end view of the financial institution’s
                  infrastructure including internal and external facing perimeters.

   Cyber Response and Recovery

S  11.22  A financial institution must establish comprehensive cyber crisis management
             policies  and  procedures  that  incorporate  cyber-attack  scenarios  and
           responses in the organisation’s overall crisis management plan, escalation
           processes, business continuity and disaster recovery planning. This includes
           developing a clear communication plan for engaging shareholders, regulatory
             authorities, customers and employees in the event of a cyber-incident.

S  11.23  A financial institution must establish and implement a comprehensive Cyber
            Incident Response Plan (CIRP). The CIRP must address the following:
              (a) Preparedness
                 Establish a clear governance process, reporting structure and roles and
                  responsibilities of the Cyber Emergency Response Team (CERT) as well
              as invocation and escalation procedures in the event of an incident;

              (b)  Detection and analysis
              Ensure  effective and expedient processes  for  identifying  points  of
              compromise, assessing the extent of damage and preserving sufficient
               evidence for forensics purposes;

              (c)  Containment, eradication and recovery
                   Identify and implement remedial actions to prevent or minimise damage
                  to the financial institution, remove the known threats and resume business
                    activities; and

              (d)  Post-incident activity
              Conduct post-incident review incorporating lessons learned and develop
                long-term risk mitigations.

S  11.24  A  financial  institution must ensure  that  relevant CERT members  are
           conversant with the incident response plan and handling procedures and
           remain contactable at all times. A key contact person or an alternate must be
           appointed to liaise with the Bank during an incident.

S  11.25  A financial institution must conduct an annual cyber drill exercise to test the
            effectiveness of  its CIRP, based on various current and emerging threat
           scenarios (e.g. social engineering), with the involvement of key stakeholders
            including members of the board, senior management and relevant third party
            service providers. The test scenarios must include scenarios designed to test:
             (a)  the effectiveness  of escalation, communication and decision-making
              processes that correspond to different impact levels of a cyber-incident;
             and
             (b)  the readiness and effectiveness of CERT and relevant third party service
                providers in supporting the recovery process.





     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   31 of 67


S  11.26  A financial institution must immediately notify the Bank of any cyber-incidents
             affecting the institution. Upon completion of the investigation, the financial
              institution is also required to submit a report on the incident through ORION19.

G  11.27  Financial institutions are strongly encouraged to collaborate and cooperate
             closely with relevant stakeholders and competent authorities in combating
           cyber threats and sharing threat intelligence and mitigation measures.

   12    Technology Audit

S  12.1   A financial institution must ensure that the scope, frequency, and intensity of
           technology audits are commensurate with the complexity, sophistication and
                criticality of technology systems and applications.

S  12.2   The  internal audit function must be adequately resourced with relevant
           technology  audit competencies and sound knowledge  of  the  financial
              institution’s technology processes and operations.

S  12.3   A financial  institution must ensure  its internal technology audit  staff are
             professionally  certified and adequately conversant  with  the developing
             sophistication of the financial institution’s technology systems and delivery
            channels.

S  12.4    In addition to paragraph 12.2, a large financial institution must establish a
           dedicated internal technology audit function that has specialised technology
             audit competencies to undertake technology audits.

S  12.5   A financial institution must establish a technology audit plan that provides
            appropriate coverage  of  critical technology  services,  third party service
            providers,  material  external system  interfaces,  delayed  or  prematurely
            terminated critical technology projects and post-implementation review of new
            or material enhancements of technology services.

G  12.6   The internal audit function (in the case of paragraph 12.2) and the dedicated
             internal technology audit function (in the case of paragraph 12.4) may be
             enlisted to provide advice on compliance with and adequacy of control
           processes during the planning and development phases  of new major
            products, systems or technology operations. In such cases, the technology
            auditors participating in this capacity should carefully consider whether such
          an advisory or consulting role would materially impair their independence or
              objectivity in performing post-implementation reviews of the products, systems
          and operations concerned.

   13      Internal Awareness and Training

S  13.1   A financial institution must provide adequate and regular technology and
            cybersecurity awareness education for all staff in undertaking their respective
             roles and measure  the  effectiveness  of  its  education and awareness
          programmes. This cybersecurity awareness education must be conducted at

      19 Operational Risk Integrated Online Network


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   32 of 67


             least annually by the financial institution and must reflect the current cyber
             threat landscape.

S  13.2   A financial institution must provide adequate and continuous training for staff
            involved in technology operations, cybersecurity and risk management in order
             to ensure that the staff are competent to effectively perform their roles and
              responsibilities.

S  13.3    In fulfilling the requirements under paragraph 13.2, a large financial institution
             shall ensure the staff working on day-to-day IT operations such as IT security,
             project management and cloud operations are also suitably certified.

S  13.4   A financial institution must provide its board members with regular training and
            information on technology developments to enable the board to effectively
           discharge its oversight role.

   PART C   REGULATORY PROCESS

   14     Notification for Technology-Related Applications

S   14.1   A financial institution must notify the Bank in accordance with the requirements
               in paragraphs 14.2 to 14.7 prior to conducting e-banking, Internet insurance
          and Internet takaful services, including introducing new technology relating to
            e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet takaful20.

S   14.2   A financial institution offering e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet takaful
            services  for the  first time must submit the following information  in the
              notification to the Bank:
              (a)  risks identified and strategies to manage such risks. This includes specific
                  accountabilities, policies and controls to address risks;
              (b)  security arrangements and controls;
               (c)  significant terms and conditions for e-banking, Internet insurance and
                  Internet takaful services;
              (d)  client charter on e-banking,  Internet insurance and  Internet  takaful
                  services;
              (e)  privacy policy statement; and
                  (f)  any outsourcing or website link arrangements, or strategic alliances or
                 partnerships with third parties that have been finalised.




  “e-banking” 20 For the purpose means of this the Part provision of banking products and services through electronic channels.
     E-banking includes banking via the Internet, phone, automated teller machines (ATM), and any other
     electronic channel;
     “Internet insurance” means the use of the Internet as a channel to transact insurance business with
     customers or as a platform for transmission of customers’ information;
     “Internet takaful” means the use of the Internet as a channel to transact takaful business with customers
     or as a platform for transmission of customers’ information.


     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   33 of 67


S   14.3    In introducing any enhancement to existing e-banking, Internet insurance and
             Internet takaful services, the financial institution  is required to follow the
              notification process based on whether the enhancement is explicitly listed in
           Appendix 6 (Positive List for Enhancement to Electronic Banking, Internet
            Insurance and Internet Takaful Services). The list may be updated as and
         when there are changes to the risk profile and risk management of the
            technology landscape.

S   14.4    For any enhancements listed in Appendix 6, the financial institution must
           submit the notification together with the following information:
              (a)  description of the enhancements to the existing technologies; and
              (b)  risk assessment of the proposed enhancements, including the impact and
              measures to mitigate identified risks.

S   14.5    For the introduction of new services, and any enhancements to existing
            services not  listed  in Appendix 6, the financial  institution  is required to
           undertake the following measures prior to notifying the Bank:
              (a) engage an independent external party to provide assurance that the
                   financial institution has addressed the technology risks and security
                  controls associated with the e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet
                  takaful services or any material enhancement to the existing e-banking,
                  Internet insurance and  Internet takaful services. The format  of the
               assurance shall be as set out in Appendix 7; and
              (b)  provide a confirmation by the CISO, senior management officer or the
               chairman of the board or designated board-level committee stipulated in
               paragraph 8.4 of the financial institution’s readiness to provide e-banking,
                  Internet insurance and Internet takaful services or implement any material
              enhancement to the e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet takaful
                  services. The format of the confirmation shall be as set out in Appendix 8.

S   14.6   A  financial  institution must ensure  that the independent  external  party
             providing the assurance is competent and has a good track record. The
           assurance shall address the matters covered in, and comply with, Appendix 9.

G  14.7    For any enhancements that do not materially alter the prior assessments and
            representations made by a financial institution to the Bank, a notification under
           paragraph 14.4 and Appendix 6 is not required.

S   14.8   A financial institution must have the relevant information pertaining to any
          enhancements  that do  not  materially  alter  the  prior assessments and
            representations made by a financial institution to the Bank readily available
          and submit the same to the Bank as and when required by the Bank within the
            period specified by the Bank.

G  14.9   A financial institution may offer the services or implement any enhancement to
            the services immediately upon submission of the notification under paragraph
            14.1 and compliance with the requirements in paragraphs 14.2 to 14.6.





     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   34 of 67


   15     Consultation and Notification related to Cloud Services

S  15.1  A financial institution is required to consult the Bank prior to the first-time
           adoption of public cloud for  critical systems. During the consultation, the
             financial institution must demonstrate that specific risks associated with the use
             of cloud services have been adequately considered and addressed to the
             satisfaction of the Bank, in order to proceed with the adoption of the public
           cloud for  critical systems for the  first time. The financial  institution shall
           undertake the following prior to consulting the Bank on its adoption of public
           cloud for critical systems:

            (a)    conduct a comprehensive  risk assessment  of the proposed cloud
                 adoption, including the possible impact and measures to address and
                  mitigate the  identified  risks as outlined  in paragraph 10.49 and  in
               Appendix 10. The financial institution shall also adopt the format of the
                Risk Assessment Report as per Appendix 7;
            (b)    provide a confirmation by the CISO, senior management officer or the
               chairman of the board or designated board-level committee stipulated in
               paragraph 8.4 of the financial institution’s readiness to adopt public cloud
                    for critical system. The format of the confirmation shall be as set out in
               Appendix 8; and
             (c)    perform a  third-party  pre-implementation  review on  public  cloud
                implementation that covers the areas set out in Appendix 10 and Part A
                   of Appendix 9 for higher-risk public cloud services, such as when the
                cloud services involve the processing or storage of customer information,
                  or if data will be transmitted across borders.

S  15.2  A financial institution shall notify the Bank on any subsequent adoption of public
           cloud  for  critical system, by submitting the notification together with the
           necessary updates to  all the information required under paragraph 15.1,
            subject to the financial  institution having met and included the following
           requirements  in the notification submitted to the Bank that the  financial
              institution:
              (a) has consulted the Bank prior to adopting public cloud for critical systems
                   for the first time in accordance with paragraph 15.1, with no concerns
                 raised by the Bank during the first-time consultation;
              (b) has enhanced the technology risk management framework to manage
                cloud risks;
              (c)  has established independent assurance on the cloud risk management
               framework; and
              (d)  provided assurance to the Bank on the enhanced incident response to
                 cater for adverse/unexpected events.

G  15.3    For the avoidance of doubt, notification to the Bank under paragraph 15.2 is
            not required for any enhancement to existing cloud adoption that does not
             materially alter the prior assessments and representations made by a financial
               institution to the Bank.

G  15.4   The Bank may at its discretion require a financial institution to consult the Bank
           under paragraph 15.1, notify the Bank under paragraph 15.2 or observe any



     Issued on: 1 June 2023
    Risk Management in Technology                                   35 of 67


              of the guidance in Appendix 10 and to explain any deviations from the
           guidance in Appendix 10 to the Bank, including for a non-critical system,
          where necessary as determined by the Bank.

S  15.5   The financial institutions must ensure the roadmap for adoption of cloud
            services (for critical systems and non-critical systems) is included in the
           annual  outsourcing  plan  submitted  to  the Bank  in adherence  to  the
            requirements in the policy document on Outsourcing or IT Profile. The risk
           assessment as outlined in paragraph 10.49 must also be documented and
         made available for the Bank’s review as and when requested by the Bank.

   16    Assessment and Gap Analysis

S  16.1  A financial institution must perform a gap analysis of existing practices in
          managing technology risk against the requirements in this policy document and
             highlight key implementation gaps. The financial institution must develop an
            action plan with a clear timeline and key milestones to address the gaps
              identified. The gap analysis and action plan must be submitted to the Bank no
              later than 90 days after the issuance date of this policy document. Financial
             institutions that have previously made a submission in accordance with the
            equivalent provision  in the previous version of this policy document are
            required to maintain continuous compliance by identifying any new gaps
            against the enhanced or revised requirements in the latest version of this policy
          document and taking the necessary steps to address such gaps. The updated
           annual assessment of its level of compliance must be made available to the
         Bank upon request.

S  16.2   For the purpose of paragraph 8.12, a financial institution shall submit together
            with the gap analysis and action plan its self-assessment on whether  it is a
            large financial institution.

S  16.3   The self-assessment, gap analysis and action plan in paragraphs 16.1 and
           16.2 must be submitted to Jabatan Penyeliaan Konglomerat Kewangan,
           Jabatan Penyeliaan Perbankan, Jabatan Penyeliaan Insurans dan Takaful or
           Jabatan Pemantauan Perkhidmatan Pembayaran, as the case may be.





     Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   36 of 67


Appendix 1 Storage and Transportation of Sensitive Data in Removable Media

Financial institutions should ensure adequate controls and measures are implemented
for the storage and transportation of sensitive data in removable media, including:
1.   Deploying the latest industry-tested and accepted encryption techniques;
2.   Implementing authorised access  control  to  sensitive data  (e.g. password
      protection, user access matrix);
3.    Prohibiting unauthorised copying and reading from the media;
4.   Should there be a need to transport the removable media to a different physical
      location, financial institutions should —
      (a)  strengthen the chain of custody process for media management which
           includes:
                (i)   the media must not be under single custody at any point of time;
                 (ii)   the media must always be within sight of the designated custodians;
             and
                  (iii)  the media must be  delivered  to  its  target  destination  without
              unscheduled stops or detours;
      (b)  use secure and official vehicle for transportation;
      (c)  use strong and tamper-proof containers for storing the media with high-
           security lock (e.g. dual key and combination lock); and
      (d)  implement location tracking functionality for each media container; and
5.   Ensuring  third  party  service  providers comply  with  the  requirements  in
     paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Appendix, in the event third party services are required
      in undertaking the storage management or transportation process of sensitive
     data.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   37 of 67


Appendix 2 Control Measures on Self-service Terminals (SSTs)

Cash SST

Cash SSTs are computer  terminals provided by banking  institutions such as
Automated Teller Machine, Cash Deposit Machine and Cash Recycler Machine that
provide cash transactions such as cash withdrawals and deposits including in foreign
currencies.

Financial institutions should ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the Cash SST, which includes:

1.   Enforcing full hard disk encryption;
2.   Retaining cards or block access to Cash SST service when the following are
     detected:
      (a)  exceed maximum PIN tries;
      (b)   invalid card authentication value;
      (c)  cash SST card unable to eject;
      (d)   “deactivated” card status;
      (e)   inactive account status such as “Dormant” or “Deceased”; and
        (f)   cards tagged as “Lost” or “Stolen”;
3.   Ensuring Cash SST operating system is running on a secure version operating
    system with continued developer or vendor support for security patches to fix any
     operating system security and vulnerabilities;
4.   Deploying Anti-virus (AV) solution for Cash SST and ensure timely update of
     signatures. Ensure virus scanning on all Cash SSTs is performed periodically;
5.   Implementing a centralised management system to monitor and  alert any
     unauthorised activities on Cash SST such as unauthorised shutting-down of OS
     or deactivation of the white-listing programme;
6.   Ensuring effective control over the Cash SST lock and key by using a unique and
     non-duplicable key to open the Cash SST PC Core compartment as well as
     ensure proper safekeeping and custody of the key;
7.    Installing alarm system with triggering mechanism connected to a centralised
      alert system to detect and alert bank’s staff of any unauthorised opening or
     tampering of the physical component of the Cash SST, particularly the access to
     the Cash SST PC Core;
8.   Securing physically the Cash SST PC Core by enclosing the CPU in a locked
     case;
9.   Enforcing  firewall and  Intrusion Prevention System  (IPS)  at the  financial
      institution’s network to filter communication between the host server and the
    Cash SST;
10.  Enforcing pairing authentication for key Cash SST components, particularly
    between cash dispenser and Cash SST controller;
11.  Enforcing Basic Input Output System (BIOS) lock-down which includes:





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   38 of 67


      (a)  enabling unique password protection for accessing BIOS. The password
          should be held by financial institutions under strict control;
      (b)   disabling external input device and port such as CD-ROM, floppy disk and
       USB port. The Cash SST operating system can only be booted from the
           internal hard disk; and
      (c)   disabling automatic BIOS update;
12.  Ensuring proper configuration and hardening of the OS and application system,
     which includes:
      (a)  blocking any wireless network connection such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi;
      (b)   disabling Microsoft default program system (such as Notepad, Internet
          browser, Windows shortcut,  file download,  file sharing and command
          prompt);
      (c)   disabling unnecessary services in the operating system such as the auto-
          play features;
      (d)  concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;
      (e)  enabling cache auto-deletion; and
        (f)   disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions;
13.  Enforcing secure system parameter setting, which includes:
      (a)  changing defaults password and other system security parameters setting
           of the Cash SST;
      (b)  using a unique system administrator password for all Cash SSTs; and
      (c)  using lowest-level privileges for programmes and users system access;
14.  Performing  scanning  and  removing  any  known  malware  such  as
     Backdoor.Padpin and Backdoor.Ploutus;
15.  Enforcing and monitor Cash SST end-point protection such as installing white-
      listing programmes. The end-point protection programme, at a minimum, should
     ensure only authorised Cash SST system processes and libraries are installed
    and executed;
16.  Enforcing strict control procedures over installation and maintenance of Cash
    SST OS and application systems, which includes:
      (a)  ensuring only authorised personnel have access to gold disk copy (master
         copy of Cash SST installation software);
      (b)  ensuring the gold disk copy is scanned for virus/malware prior to installation
            into Cash SST; and
      (c)   enforcing dual control  for  installation and maintenance of Cash SST
          software; and
17.  Installing closed-circuit cameras and transaction triggered cameras at strategic
     locations with adequate lighting in order to ensure high quality and clear closed-
      circuit television images of cardholder performing a transaction as well as any
     suspicious activities.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   39 of 67


Non-Cash SST

Non-cash SSTs are computer terminals such as desktops, laptops, tablets and cheque
deposit machines that provide non-cash transactions such as cheque deposits,
balance enquiries, fund transfers, utilities bill payments and insurance quotations.
Financial institutions should ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the self-service terminals, which includes:
1.   Enforcing the use of lock and key on the computer terminal’s central processing
      unit (CPU) at all times;
2.   Deploying closed-circuit television to monitor the usage of self-service terminals;
3.   Ensuring adequate control over network security of the self-service terminals to
     ensure that the kiosks are secured and segregated from the internal network;
4.   Disabling the use of all input devices (such as USB, CD and DVD), application
    system (such as Notepad, Microsoft Word, and Microsoft PowerPoint) and file
    download as well as command prompt on the kiosk;
5.   Disabling browser scripting, pop-ups, ActiveX, Windows shortcut;
6.   Concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;
7.   Enabling cache auto-deletion;
8.   Disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions; and
9.    Restricting use of Internet browser i.e. only to be used to access the financial
      institution’s internet website.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   40 of 67


Appendix 3 Control Measures on Internet Banking

1.  A  financial  institution  should  ensure  the adequacy  of  security  controls
     implemented for Internet banking, which include:
      (a)  Ensure Internet banking only runs on secured versions of web browsers
           that have continued developer support for security patches to  fix any
            vulnerabilities;
      (b)  Put in place additional authentication protocols to enable customers to
            identify the financial institution’s genuine website such as deploying image
           or word verification authentication or similar controls. The system should
           require the customer to acknowledge that the image or word is correct
          before the password box is displayed to the customer;
      (c)  Assign a customer to MFA solution binding to a single device;
      (d)  Require MFA when registering an account as a “favourite” beneficiary. A
            financial institution must also require MFA, for the first funds transfer to the
           favourite beneficiary;
      (e)  For new customers, the default transfer limit shall be set at a conservatively
         low level (such as RM5,000 per day). However, customers should be
          provided with the option to change the limit via secure channels (e.g. online
           with MFA or at branches); and
        (f)   Deploy an automated fraud detection system which has the capability to
         conduct heuristic behavioural analysis.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   41 of 67


Appendix 4 Control Measures on Mobile Application and Devices

1.  A financial institution should ensure digital payment, banking and insurance
     services involving sensitive customer and counterparty information offered via
     mobile devices are adequately secured. This includes the following:
      (a)  ensure mobile applications run only on the supported version of operating
         systems and enforce the application to only operate on a secure version of
          operating systems which have not been compromised, jailbroken or rooted
              i.e. the security patches are up-to-date;
      (b)  design the mobile application to operate in a secure and tamper-proof
         environment within the mobile devices. The mobile application should be
           prohibited from storing customer and counterparty information used for
           authentication with the application server such as PIN and passwords.
          Authentication and verification of unique key and PIN should be centralised
           at the host;
      (c)  undertake proper due  diligence processes  to ensure the  application
            distribution  platforms used  to  distribute  the  mobile  application  are
           reputable;
      (d)  ensure proper controls are in place to access, maintain and upload the
          mobile application on application distribution platforms;
      (e)   activation of the mobile application should be subject to authentication by
          the financial institution;
        (f)   ensure secure provisioning process of mobile application in the customer’s
          device is in place by binding the mobile application to the customer’s profile
         such as device ID and account number; and
      (g)  monitor the application distribution platforms to identify and address the
            distribution of fake applications in a timely manner.

2.    In addition to the guidance in paragraph 1, a financial institution should also
     ensure the following measures are applied specifically for applications running
    on mobile devices used by the  financial  institution, appointed agents  or
     intermediaries  for  the purpose  of processing customer and  counterparty
     information:
      (a)  mobile device to be adequately hardened and secured;
      (b)  ensure the capability to automatically wipe data stored in the mobile devices
            in the event the device is reported stolen or missing;
      (c)   establish safeguards that ensure the security of customer and counterparty
          information (e.g. Primary Account Numbers (PAN), Card Verification Value
        Numbers (CVV), expiry dates and Personal Identification Numbers (PIN) of
         payment cards), including to mitigate risks of identity theft and fraud21;
      (d)  enforce masking of sensitive customer and counterparty information when
          displayed on mobile devices; and
      (e)   limit the storage of customer and counterparty information for soliciting
          insurance businesses in mobile devices to 30 days.





21 This includes risks associated with malwares that enable keystroke logging, PIN harvesting and other
  malicious forms of customer and counterparty information downloading.


Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   42 of 67


Appendix 5 Control Measures on Cybersecurity

1.   Conduct periodic review on the configuration and rules settings for all security
     devices. Use automated tools to review and monitor changes to configuration
    and rules settings.
2.   Update checklists on the latest security hardening of operating systems.
3.   Update security standards and protocols for web services encryption regularly.
     Disable support of weak ciphers and protocol in web-facing applications.
4.   Ensure technology networks are segregated into multiple zones according to
      threat profile. Each zone shall be adequately protected by various security
     devices including firewall and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS). This must
     include mobile and wireless networks as well.
5.   Ensure security controls  for server-to-server external network connections
     include the following:
      (a)   server-to-server authentication such as Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
            certificate or user ID and password;
      (b)  use of secure tunnels such as Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Virtual
           Private Network (VPN) IPSec; and
      (c)   deploying staging servers with adequate perimeter defences and protection
         such as firewall, IPS and antivirus.
6.   Ensure security controls for remote access to server include the following:
      (a)   restrict access to only hardened and locked down end-point devices;
      (b)  use secure tunnels such as TLS and VPN IPSec;
      (c)  deploy ‘gateway’ server with adequate perimeter defences and protection
         such as firewall, IPS and antivirus; and
      (d)  close relevant ports immediately upon expiry of remote access.
7.   Ensure overall network security controls are implemented including the following:
      (a)  dedicated firewalls at all segments. All external-facing firewalls must be
         deployed on High Availability (HA) configuration and “fail-close” mode
           activated. Deploy different brand name/model for two firewalls located in
         sequence within the same network path;
      (b)  IPS at  all critical network segments with the capability to inspect and
          monitor encrypted network traffic;
      (c)  web and email filtering systems such as web-proxy, spam filter and anti-
          spoofing controls;
      (d)  end-point  protection  solution  to  detect and remove  security  threats
           including viruses and malicious software;
      (e)   solution to mitigate advanced persistent threats including zero-day and
          signatureless malware; and
        (f)   capture the full network packets to rebuild relevant network sessions to aid
           forensics in the event of incidents.
8.   Synchronise and protect the Network Time Protocol (NTP) server against
     tampering.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   43 of 67


Appendix 6 Positive List for Enhancements to electronic Banking, Internet
           Insurance and Internet Takaful Services
 Guiding Principles:

 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
 1.  Participation in payment  1. Enhance     Transaction  1.  System
    gateways       involving     Authorisation Code (TAC)      connectivity   with
     Financial      Process     delivery         including     approved
    Exchange        (FPX),     subscribing to a new TAC     schemes         i.e.
    approved     payment    gateway service provider.      PayNet.
    system   operator  and  2. Enhance  the  e-Banking  2.  Enhancement   to
     registered     business    system     to    support     add connectivity to
    (merchant     acquiring     migration to Chip and PIN       third party service
     business) with BNM.         cards.                         providers         i.e.
 2.  Implementation        of  3. Implement    automated    MYEG,   Financial
     technology      platform     storing of privilege IDs.          Link,         Rexit,
    approved by  Securities  4. Enhancements to existing      Bestinet,  PSPPA
    Commission e.g. Digital     login features of biometric     and Merimen.
     Investment Management     security.                     3.  Changes      on
 3.  Participation in approved  5. Enhancement to existing       security      and
    schemes as follows:         features of MFA method.       monitoring related
        (i)  Tabung Haji;           6. Enhancement to existing       tools that include
        (ii) Amanah    Saham     features of phone banking          (i)  Firewalls;
        Nasional    Berhad     technology.                                 (ii)  Intrusion
        (ASNB);               7. Enhancement  on   login          Detection
         (iii) Skim    Simpanan     authentication method on        Systems
        Pendidikan Nasional     the    existing    Internet           (IDS); and
         (SSPN-i); and            platform.                                        (iii) Intrusion
       (iv) PayNet’s     current                                      Prevention
       and future products                                 Systems
       and  services,  e.g.                                           (IPS).
        Real-time      Retail                                    4. Enhancements   of
       Payments  Platform                           Open        API
       (RPP)   / DuitNow   /                                      integrations  which
       DuitNow  QR,  and                              does  not  involve
        Fasstap                                               the transmission of
                                                                        “confidential”    or
                                                                       “sensitive”
                                                                    information.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   44 of 67


 Guiding Principles:

 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
 4.  Enable  RENTAS  and                                   5.  Enhancement   to
    SWIFT       payment                              add   connectivity
     transaction  initiative on                                     with     approved
     the Internet platform.                                           participants in the
 5.  Participation  in  existing                                     Financial
    approved    e-channels                                Technology
      e.g.:                                                     Regulatory
        (i)  Western Union;                                    Sandbox.
        (ii) Merchantrade;                                          6. Enhancement    to
         (iii) Paypal;                                        add    connectivity
       (iv) Inter   Bank   Giro                                     with         online
         (IBG); and                                                    distribution
      (v)  Inter  Bank  Fund                                 channel        e.g.
         Transfer (IBFT).                                      telecommunication
 6.  Notification to participate                              company.
      in existing approved e-                                    7. Enhancement    to
    money issuer.                                      add    connectivity
 7.  Usage      of     motor                                     with     third-party
     underwriting engine by                                    without    material
     third-party for calculation                              change    to   the
     of motor premium.                                             existing  approved
 8.  Enhancement         to                                      platform.
     application   form  and                                   8. Leveraging
     underwriting question.                                  approved
 9.  Increase  in  transaction                                   website/mobile
      limits  including  default                                      application  for  e-
      limit for online/ATM.                                     banking or Internet
 10. Enhancement   for  the                                    insurance-related
     following       services                                    services      within
     including  new  add-on                                        financial group.
     services and features on
     the existing platform:
        (i)    Debit/credit   card
           activation; and
        (ii)   Reset password;





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   45 of 67


 Guiding Principles:
 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
         (iii)  Block        card
           including  enabling
            debit/credit card for
         overseas usage;
       (iv)  Credit  card  PIN
         change via Internet
          banking;
      (v)   Credit        card
           activation       via
          SMS/online;
       (vi)  Maintenance     of
           existing    product
          features  e.g. time
          deposit    maturity
          tenor and rates;
       (vii)  Add-on features or
          services   to   the
           existing interactive
          voice    response
          (IVR) system;
       (viii) Add-on    features
        and services from
          the         existing
           Internet platform to
          the existing mobile
           application;
       (ix)  Add-on    features
        and  functions  to
           existing  approved
          platform  such  as
          loan  applications,
         opening          of
          accounts,
          purchasing  travel/
         motor   insurance,
          withdrawal,





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   46 of 67


 Guiding Principles:
 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
         surrender, claims
       and endorsement;
     (x)  Enrolment         of
         new/existing
        customers onto the
         online platform;
     (xi)  Maintenance      of
         customer’s
          credential        via
          Internet    platform;
       and
      (xii)  Implementation   of
         “chatbot”   or   “live
         chat”    onto    the
          existing   approved
         platform to facilitate
        non-complex
           activity.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   47 of 67


Appendix 7 Risk Assessment Report


 Part A: Financial Institution

 Name of Financial Institution

 Mailing address

 Type of cloud service /e-
 banking/Internet insurance    New / Enhancement
 and Internet takaful service

 Description of the cloud
 service, e-banking, Internet
 insurance and Internet takaful
 service


 Key contact personnel

 Email address

 Phone number

 Part B: External Service Provider

 Name of company

 SSM registration number

 Mailing address

 Engagement period

 Key contact personnel

 Email address

 Phone number

 Part C: Detail of application

 Overview of the application     (Please keep the response below 200 words.
 i.e. business case, target        Additional information may be provided as
 segment of demographic and    supporting documents)
 end-user, etc.

 Describe the technology used   (Please keep the response below 200 words.
 to support the product, service   Additional information may be provided as
 or solution                     supporting documents)




Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   48 of 67


 Part D: Technology risk assessment

 Technology risk assessment
 shall provide assurance on the
 effectiveness of technology
 risk control and mitigation
 performed by the financial
 institutions in meeting
 expectations outlined in Part B
 of Appendix 9 and paragraph
 15.1 (for cloud services).

 Part E: Quality assurance

 Overall recommendation





 Part F: Authorised signatory

 Signature





 Name

 Designation

 Date





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   49 of 67


Appendix 8 Format of Confirmation

Name of Financial Institution…. ………..……………………………………………………

As Chairman of the board of directors / designated board-level committee / CISO /
designated senior management officer * of [name of Financial Institution], I confirm
that –

  1.   cloud service /e-banking / Internet insurance / Internet takaful * is consistent
       with the bank’s / insurer’s / takaful operator’s * strategic and business plans;
  2.   the board of directors  / senior management * understand and are ready to
     assume the roles and responsibilities stated in Bank Negara Malaysia’s policy
     document on Risk Management in Technology and are also apprised of all
       relevant provisions in the FSA, IFSA and DFIA and other relevant legislation,
       guidelines and codes of conduct;
  3.    risk management process  related  to cloud service /e-banking  /  Internet
      insurance / Internet takaful * is subject to appropriate oversight by the board of
       directors and senior management;
  4.   appropriate security measures to address cloud service /e-banking / Internet
      insurance / Internet takaful * security concerns are in place;
  5.   customer support services and education related to cloud service /e-banking /
       Internet insurance / Internet takaful * are in place;
  6.   performance monitoring of cloud service /e-banking  / Internet insurance  /
       Internet takaful * products, services, delivery channels and processes has been
       established;
  7.   cloud service /e-banking / Internet insurance / Internet takaful * is included in
      the contingency and business resumption plans;
  8.   there are adequate resources to support the offering of cloud service /e-banking
           / Internet insurance / Internet takaful * business; and
  9.   the systems, procedures, security measures, etc. relevant to sound operations
       of cloud service /e-banking / Internet insurance / Internet takaful * will constantly
     be reviewed to keep up with the latest changes.




Signature : ………………………………
Name : …………………………………..
Date : ………………………..…………..


* (delete whichever is not applicable)





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   50 of 67


Appendix 9 Supervisory Expectations on External Party Assurance

Part A: Financial Institutions are required to provide an external assurance
1.   The assurance shall be conducted by an independent external service provider
    (ESP) engaged by the financial institution.
2.   The independent ESP must understand the proposed services, the data flows,
    system architecture, connectivity as well as its dependencies.
3.   The  independent ESP  shall  review  the comprehensiveness  of  the  risk
    assessment performed by the financial institution and validate the adequacy of
     the control measures implemented or to be implemented.
4.   The Risk Assessment Report (as per Part D in Appendix 7) shall state among
     others, the scope of review, risk assessment methodology, summary of findings
    and remedial actions (if any).
5.   The Risk Assessment Report shall confirm there is no exception noted based on
     the prescribed risk areas (Negative attestation).
6.   The financial institution shall provide the Risk Assessment Report accompanied
    by the relevant documents.

Part B: Minimum controls to be assessed by the independent External Service
Provider, where applicable
1.   The independent ESP assessment of security requirements shall include the
     following key areas:
      (a)  access control;
      (b)   physical and environmental security;
      (c)   operations security;
      (d)  communication security;
      (e)   information security incident management; and
        (f)   information security aspects of business continuity management.

2.   For online transactions and services, a financial institution has implemented the
      following:
      (a)  adequate  measures  to  authenticate  customer  identity  and  ensure
           legitimate transaction authorisation by the customer, including—
                (i)   measures to prevent session takeover or man-in-the-middle attacks;
                 (ii)   internal controls must be in place to prevent compromise of relevant
                 internal systems /application /database;
                  (iii)  where appropriate, apply  multi-level authentication, out  of band
                protocol and real-time verification;
              (iv)  secure session handling functions and authentication databases; and
            (v)  ensure   strong  password  and   cryptographic  implementation
               (recognised algorithm with reasonable key strength);

      (b)  adequate measures for transaction authentication that promotes non-
          repudiation and establishes accountability—
                (i)   mechanism exists to ensure proof of origin, content as well as the
                  integrity of the message;
                 (ii)  chosen channel to deliver transaction is secure;



Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   51 of 67


                  (iii)  mechanism exists to alert the user on certain type of transactions for
                 further authentication; and
              (iv)  establish  mutual  authentication  or  appropriate  use  of  digital
                   certification;

      (c)   segregation of duties and access control privilege for systems, databases
        and applications—
                (i)   implement dual control where applicable;
                 (ii)   controls exist to detect and prevent unauthorised access to relevant
               resources/devices;
                  (iii)  authorisation database should be tamper-resistant; and
              (iv)  periodic review of privileged users;

      (d)  adequate  measures  to  protect  data  integrity  of  transactions  and
           information:
                (i)   implementation of end-to-end encryption for external communication;
                 (ii)   implementation of multi-layer network security and devices;
                  (iii)  absence of single point of failures in network architecture;
              (iv)  conduct network security assessment/penetration  test  to  identify
                  vulnerabilities;
            (v)   establish audit trail capabilities;
              (vi)  preserve the confidentiality of information;
               (vii) use of stronger authentication for higher risk transactions; and
                (viii) timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of the
               nature of the transaction; and

      (e)  adequate measures to mitigate associated risks of using electronic mobile
          devices to perform online transactions, which shall include the following:
                (i)   application is running on secure mobile Operating System versions;
                 (ii)   application is not running on compromised devices;
                  (iii)  conduct penetration test to identify and rectify potential vulnerability;
              (iv)  secure end-to-end communication between the device and host;
            (v)   sensitive information is not stored on mobile devices;
              (vi)  user is notified of successful transactions;
               (vii)  user is notified of suspicious transactions;
                (viii) continuous  monitoring  and  takedown  of  fake  applications  in
                application distribution platforms;
              (ix)  controls over the uploading of application to application distribution
                platforms;
            (x)  a unique code is generated per transaction; and
              (xi)  timely expiry of the transaction code.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   52 of 67


Appendix 10: Key Risks and Control Measures for Cloud Services

This appendix provides additional guidance to financial institutions for the assessment
of common key  risks and  considerations  of  control measures when  financial
institutions adopt public cloud for critical systems. The guidance is broadly applicable
across various cloud service models and financial institutions should apply a risk-
based approach in implementing the guidance.
The guidance consists of two (2) parts:
   •  Part A: Cloud governance – describes the considerations governing the cloud
      usage policy, and technology  skills capacity to implement cloud services
      securely and effectively.
   •  Part B: Cloud design and control – describes the considerations related to
      designing  robust  cloud  infrastructure and  in  operationalising  the  cloud
      environment. This places emphasis on cloud architecture, cloud application
       delivery model, high velocity software development, user access management,
      data protection, key management, cloud backup and recovery, business
       continuity management and cybersecurity management.

Part A: Cloud Governance
A  financial  institution should ensure  robust  cloud governance processes  are
established prior to cloud adoption and are subject to on-going review and continuous
improvement. This should cover the following areas:


1. Cloud risk management
   (a) The board of a financial institution should promote and implement sound
      governance principles throughout the cloud service lifecycle in line with the
       financial institution’s risk appetite to ensure safety and soundness of the
       financial institution.

   (b) The senior management of a financial institution should develop and implement
     a cloud risk management framework that integrates with existing outsourcing
        risk management framework, technology risk management framework (TRMF)
     and cyber resilience framework (CRF), for the board’s approval, proportionate
       to the materiality of cloud adoption in its business strategy, to assist in the
        identification, monitoring and mitigating of risks arising from cloud adoption.

   (c) Common cloud service models22 are Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-
      as-a-Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), wherein each
      presents a different set of capabilities offered to the financial institution as the


22 Cloud service models consist of SaaS, PaaS and IaaS. For SaaS, financial institutions, as a
consumer, uses the cloud service provider’s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. PaaS is a
service model where financial institutions deploy application onto cloud infrastructure using the
platform capabilities e.g., programming languages, libraries services and tools supported by the cloud
service provider. IaaS is a service model where cloud service provider offers fundamental computing
resources such as compute, network, or storage, where financial institutions can deploy application
and operation systems.


Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   53 of 67


      cloud consumer, and hence a different set of shared responsibilities. In view of
        this, the cloud risk management framework of the financial institution should :

               i) be an integral part of the financial institution’s enterprise risk management
          framework (ERM);
                ii) be tailored to the cloud service models, both currently in use or being
           considered for use; and
                 iii) specify the scope of the financial institution’s responsibility under each
          shared responsibility model, as the associated risks may vary.


   (d) A financial institution is responsible for the protection of data stored in cloud
       irrespective of cloud service models and the cloud service providers. Therefore,
      the financial institution’s understanding of the specific details of the cloud
      arrangement, particularly what is or is not specified in the terms of the contract
       with the cloud service providers is essential.

   (e) Regardless of the cloud arrangement with cloud service providers, the onus
      remains on the financial institution to satisfy the Bank that  it is protecting
      customer information and ensuring service reliability.

    (f) The use of cloud services may represent a paradigm shift in technology
      operation management  as compared  to  on-premises  IT  infrastructure.
      Business processes may change and  internal  controls on compliance,
      business continuity, information and data security may be overlooked due to
      the ease  of  subscribing  to  cloud  services.  Therefore,  the  cloud  risk
     management framework should also clearly articulate the accountability of the
       financial institution’s board and senior management and the process involved
        in approving and managing cloud service usage, including the responsibility of
      key functions across the enterprise in business, IT, finance, legal, compliance
     and audit, over the lifecycle of cloud service adoption.

   (g) As the cloud landscape rapidly evolves, a financial institution`s cloud risk
     management framework should undergo periodic review (at least once every
      three years to ensure its adequacy and effectiveness to manage new service
     models over time), or immediately upon any major cyber security incidents
       involving the cloud services.


2. Cloud usage policy
   (a) The financial institution’s senior management should develop and implement
       internal policies and procedures that articulate the criteria for permitting or
       prohibiting the hosting of information assets on cloud services, commensurate
       with the level of criticality of the information asset and the capabilities of the
       financial institution to effectively manage the risks associated with the cloud
      arrangement.

   (b) A financial institution should expand the scope of its current technology assets
       inventory to include critical systems hosted on the cloud services, with a clear



Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   54 of 67


      assignment of ownership, and to be updated upon deployment and changes of
       IT assets to facilitate timely recalibration of cybersecurity posture in tandem
       with an evolving threat landscape. Having visibility on the latest view of the
      technology asset would enable effective triaging, escalation and response to
       information security incidents.

   (c) A financial institution should regularly review and update the cloud usage policy
       at least once every three years. However, where any material changes arise,
       including but not limited to adoption of new cloud service deployment model,
       or adoption of cloud service for IT systems with higher degree of criticality, the
       financial  institution  should  review and  update  its  cloud usage  policy
      immediately.


3. Due diligence
Due diligence on the prospective cloud service providers should be risk-based and
conducted to a level of scrutiny that is commensurate with the  criticality of the
information and technology assets to be hosted on the cloud in compliance with
relevant requirements and guidance as stipulated in the Third Party Service Provider
Management section (paragraphs 10.41 to 10.48) of this  policy document and
paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 in the Bank’s Outsourcing policy document (Outsourcing
process and management of  risks, Outsourcing outside Malaysia, Outsourcing
involving cloud services).


4. Access to cloud service providers’ certifications
A financial institution should review their cloud service providers’ certifications prior to
entering into any cloud arrangement or contract with such cloud service providers. At
a minimum, a financial institution should:
   (a) Seek assurance that the cloud service provider continues to be compliant with
       relevant legal, or regulatory requirements as well as contractual obligations and
      assess the cloud service provider’s action plans  for mitigating any non-
      compliance; and
   (b) Obtain and refer to credible independent external party reports of the cloud
      platforms when conducting risk assessments. The financial institution’s risk
      assessment should address all the requirements and guidance as stipulated in
      the Cloud Services section (paragraphs 10.49 to 10.51) of this policy document
     and paragraph 11 of the Bank’s policy document on Outsourcing which sets out
       provisions on outsourcing involving cloud services.


5. Contract management
A  financial  institution should  set out  clearly and where  relevant, measurable,
contractually agreed terms and parameters on the information security and operational
standards expected  of  the cloud  service  providers. Such  contract terms and




Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   55 of 67


parameters should be aligned with the  financial  institution’s business strategy,
information security policies and regulatory requirements.
   (a) The terms of the contracts between the financial institution and cloud service
      providers should address the risks associated with cloud services and third
       party service providers as stipulated in the Cloud Services section (paragraphs
      10.49 to 10.51) of this policy document and related paragraphs in the Bank’s
      Outsourcing policy document (Outsourcing agreement – paragraphs 9.6 and
       9.7, and Protection of data confidentiality – paragraphs 9.8 and 9.9);
   (b) Jurisdiction risk may arise because cloud service providers operate regionally
       or globally in nature and may be subject to the laws and regulatory requirements
       of its home country, the location of incorporation, and the country where the
        client receives the service. Therefore, a financial institution should:
               i)  identify and address potential jurisdiction risks by adopting appropriate
            mitigating measures, where practically possible, to ensure the use of cloud
            services does not impair its ability to comply with local law and regulatory
           requirements; and
                ii) understand  the scope  of  local customer  protection  legislation and
            regulatory requirements as well as to ensure that the financial institution
           receives adequate protection and recourse for the benefit of its customers,
              in the event of a data breach or fulfilment of a legal data request by the
           cloud service provider;
   (c) A  financial  institution should assess the  potential impact and  formalise
      arrangements with cloud service providers to comply with local laws and
       regulatory  requirements  for  incident  investigation and  law  enforcement
      purposes. This would include adhering to data retention requirements and data
      access procedural arrangements to ensure the confidentiality and privacy of the
      customers are protected; and
    (d) The provision of cloud services by the primary cloud service provider may
       interconnect with multiple layers of other fourth party service providers (such as
       sub-contractors), which could change rapidly. For example, customer data
      could be leaked due to exposure caused by fourth party service providers. To
       mitigate the risks associated with such fourth party service providers, financial
        institutions should:
               i) understand the scope of customer information shared across the supply
           chain and ensure that relevant information security controls can be legally
           enforced by the financial institution; and
                ii) ensure Service Level Agreement (SLA) negotiations and contractual
           terms cover the performance matrix, availability, and reliability of services
              in order to ensure that the cloud service providers agree and are formally
            aligned on the requirements and standard of cloud services provided. In
             addition, cloud service providers should be accountable to the financial
              institution for the SLA, performance matrix, availability and reliability of
           cloud services rendered by its service providers (i.e. subcontractors).



Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   56 of 67



6. Oversight over cloud service providers
A financial institution should ensure effective oversight over cloud service providers
taking into account the fact that the cloud service providers may engage sub-
contractor(s) to provide cloud services. This includes, at a minimum, the following:
   (a) establish and define a continuous monitoring mechanism with alignment to the
       enterprise outsourcing risk management framework (or equivalent) to ensure
      adherence to the agreed SLA, compliance of the cloud service provider with
     any applicable legal and regulatory requirements and resilience of outsourced
      technology services on on-going basis;
   (b)  identify, assign and document the key responsibilities within the financial
        institution  for continuous monitoring of cloud service providers to ensure
       accountabilities are clearly defined;
   (c) perform assessments of the outsourcing arrangement involving cloud service
      providers periodically in accordance with the financial institution’s internal policy
       to achieve business resilience with emphasis on data security and ensure
      prompt notification to the Bank of the developments that may result in material
      impact to the financial institution (such as jurisdiction risks for data hosted
      overseas due to evolving foreign legislation and geopolitical development) in
        line with the Bank’s policy document on Outsourcing (Outsourcing PD), in
       particular, provisions relating to outsourcing of cloud services outside Malaysia
       including paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of the Outsourcing PD; and
    (d) promptly review or re-perform risk assessment upon any material changes in
      cloud risk profile such as jurisdiction risks for data hosted overseas due to
       evolving foreign legislation and geopolitical development.


7. Skilled personnel with knowledge on cloud services
   (a) The adoption of cloud services require commensurate changes to the financial
        institution’s  internal resources and process  capabilities. In  this regard, a
       financial institution should:
               i) equip its board and senior management with appropriate knowledge to
           conduct effective oversight over the cloud adoption; and
                ii) ensure  its  IT and  security  operations  or  relevant  personnel  are
            appropriately skilled in the areas of cloud design, migration, security
            configurations,   including   administrative,  monitoring  and   incident
           response;
   (b) The effective management of cloud services is not purely the responsibility of
      the financial institutions’ IT function. Therefore, a financial institution should
      ensure  relevant   internal  resources   in  business  operations,  finance,
      procurement,  legal,  risk and compliance are also adequately  skilled and
     engaged to manage the change in risk profile arising from cloud adoption. This




Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   57 of 67


      should also enable financial institutions to respond effectively to operational
       incidents;
   (c) A financial institution should equip internal audit and personnel undertaking the
        risk management and compliance functions with relevant cloud computing and
      cloud security skills to be able to verify the effectiveness of the information
       security controls in alignment with the financial institution’s cloud usage policy
     and information security objectives;
   (d) A financial institution should ensure that its staff receive adequate training to
      understand their responsibilities in complying with internal cloud usage policies
     and are prepared to effectively respond to a range of security incident scenarios
      developed on a risk-based approach; and
   (e) A financial institution should expand the scope of the formal consequence
     management process to govern the use of cloud services to ensure the cloud
     usage policy is effectively enforced given that cyber hygiene is critical to ensure
      the continued security of cloud service usage.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   58 of 67


Part B: Cloud Design and Control
A financial institution should design its adoption of cloud services with a degree of
portability, scalability and fault tolerance that is proportionate to the materiality of the
cloud service to  its business operation.  It should also ensure robust operational
controls are in place to manage its ongoing cloud operations.


1. Cloud architecture
   (a) A financial institution should design a robust cloud architecture and ensure such
      design  is  in accordance with the relevant international standards  for the
      intended application.
   (b) A financial institution is encouraged to adopt zero-trust principles23 to provide a
      cyber resilient architecture by adopting an “assume breach” mindset, layering
      defense-in-depth  through  micro-segmentation,   “deny-by-default“,   “least
       privilege” access  rights, and conducting deep inspection and continuous
       validation where applicable.
   (c) A financial institution should use the latest network architecture approach and
      appropriate network design concept and solutions for managing and monitoring
      granular network security and centralized network provision  in managing
      complexity of the cloud network environment.
   (d) A  financial  institution should  establish and  utilise secure and encrypted
      communication channels for migrating physical servers, applications, or data to
      the cloud platforms.
   (e) For  financial  institutions  leveraging  on  their  financial  group’s  cloud
       infrastructure, the financial institutions should consider an appropriate level of
      network segregation (e.g., logical tenant isolation in the shared environment of
      the cloud) to mitigate the risk of cyber-attacks from propagating cross-border or
       cross-entity and affecting the Malaysian financial institution’s operations.
    (f)  The increasing use of application programming interfaces (API) by financial
        institution to interconnect with external application service providers could
      achieve efficiency in new service delivery. However, this may increase the
      cyber-attack surface and any mismanagement may amplify the impact of an
       information security incident. A financial institution should ensure its APIs are
      subject to rigorous management and control mechanisms which include the
       following:
                i) APIs should be designed for service resilience to avoid the risk of single
            points of failure and configured securely with appropriate access controls;
          and





23 Zero-trust principles is a security paradigm designed to prevent data breaches and limit internal lateral
movement of threat actors by requiring all users, whether in or outside the organization’s network, to be
authenticated, authorized, and validated before being granted the access.


Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   59 of 67


                ii) APIs should be  tracked and monitored  against  cyber-attacks  with
          adequate incident response measures and are de-commissioned on a
            timely basis when no longer in use.

2. Cloud application delivery models
   (a) Cloud application delivery models may evolve to support faster time-to-market
        in response  to consumer demand.  Currently, DevOps and Continuous
       Integration  / Continuous Development (CI/CD)24 are amongst the prevailing
       practices and processes for cloud application delivery. For instance, the ability
       to enforce segregation of duties for CI/CD where application developers may
       require access to the management plane for service configuration. A financial
        institution should ensure CI/CD pipelines are configured properly to enhance
       security of automated deployments and immutable infrastructure25.
   (b) A financial institution should continuously leverage enhanced cloud capabilities
       to improve the security of the cloud services and financial institutions are,
     among others, encouraged to:
               i) adopt industry best practices such as infrastructure-as-code (IaC)26 to
          automate the provisioning of IT infrastructure in a consistent, scalable and
           secure manner; and
                ii) use immutable infrastructure practices for deployment of services to
          reduce the risk of failure by creating a new environment with the latest
            stable version of the software. The on-going monitoring of the cloud
           environment should include automating the detection of changes to
          immutable  infrastructure  to improve compliance review and combat
            evolving cyber-attacks.
   (c) Where relevant, a financial institution should implement appropriate controls on
      the IaC process to minimise the risk of misconfiguration and reduce the cyber-
       attack surface. This includes the following measures that should be taken by
      the financial institution:
               i) conduct vulnerabilities scanning as part of IaC automation steps and
          ensure issues are remediated prior to the provisioning of IT infrastructure;
                ii) ensure virtual machine images (VMI) or container images of IaC templates
           are trusted and digitally signed; and
                 iii) implement appropriate access control to prevent unauthorized changes to
          IaC templates.


24 CI/CD is a set of methods that enables developers to deliver code changes more frequently using
automation.
25 Immutable  infrastructure  is an approach  to managing and  deploying  infrastructure where
components, such as virtual servers and networks, are created once and then never modified. If a new
version of a service or application requires changes to the underlying infrastructure components, new
instances of those components are created and the old instances are replaced.
26 The process of managing and provisioning an organization’s IT infrastructure using machine-readable
configuration files, rather than employing physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration
tools.
- NIST Special Publication 800-172, U.S. Department of Commerce, February 2020


Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   60 of 67


3. Virtualization and containerization management
The guidance provided in this paragraph is applicable to financial institutions which
use or plan to use PaaS and IaaS cloud service models only.
   (a) A financial institution should ensure virtualization services are configured in line
       with the prevailing guidance from the cloud service providers and industry best
       practices, commensurate with the evolution of cloud computing technologies.
   (b) A financial institution should ensure virtual machine and container images are
       configured, hardened, and monitored appropriately. This includes the following:
               i) use stable images and keep images up to date;
                ii) store and use images from trusted repositories or registries;
                 iii) scan images for vulnerabilities, remediate any vulnerabilities prior running
              in production;
            iv) enforce “least privilege” access;
          v) harden images based on industry best practices; and
            vi) stored images are subjected to security monitoring from unauthorised
          access and changes.


4. Change management
   (a) A financial institution should establish a process to systematically assess and
      take appropriate action to manage the impact of the releases by cloud service
      providers  in  relation  to  existing  infrastructure,  network,  upstream and
     downstream systems to minimize the impact of any service disruption.
   (b) A financial institution should ensure its existing change management process
        is extended to cover cloud services where appropriate to promote effective and
      secure system development. The escalation process and approving authority
      should be clearly defined to ensure critical changes can be implemented and
        risk of service disruptions are mitigated promptly.
   (c)  All critical changes deployed to the production environment should also be
       timely applied across environments such as disaster recovery site or supported
      cloud regions and availability zones where appropriate.


5. Cloud backup and recovery
   (a) As part of an effective recovery capability, financial institutions should ensure
       existing backup and recovery procedures are extended to cover cloud services,
      which includes the following:
               i) define and formalise backup and recovery strategy at the planning stage
             of cloud adoption;
                ii) conduct periodic reviews of the cloud service providers’ restoration and
           recovery capabilities; and
                 iii) conduct testing of recovery strategy prior to deployment of the system.
   (b) A financial institution should ensure backup and restoration procedures are
       periodically tested to validate recovery capabilities. The frequency of backup



Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   61 of 67


      procedures should be commensurate with the criticality of the system and
      recovery point objective (RPO) of the system. Remedial actions should be taken
      promptly by the financial institution for unsuccessful backups.
   (c) A financial institution should ensure sufficient backup and recovery of virtual
     machine and container including backup configuration settings (for IaaS and
     PaaS, where relevant), which includes the following:
               i) ensure the capability to restore a virtual machine and container at point-
             in-time27 as per the business recovery objectives; and
                ii) make virtual machine and container images available in a way that would
            allow the financial institutions to replicate those images at alternate sites
            or recovery sites28 ;
   (d) A financial institution should assess the resilience requirements of the cloud
      services and identify appropriate measures that commensurate with the
        criticality of the system, to ensure service availability in the extreme adverse
      scenarios. Financial institutions should consider a risk-based approach and
       progressively adopt appropriate mitigating controls to ensure service
        availability and mitigate concentration risk. Amongst the viable options are:
               i)  leverage cloud services’ high availability and redundancy features to
          ensure production data centres have redundant capacity in different
              availability zones;
                ii) achieve geographical redundancy by having data centres in different
           geographical regions;
                 iii) adopt hybrid cloud (combination of on-premises and public cloud setup);
            iv) establish back-up  cloud  service  providers and  identify  appropriate
          arrangement for porting of data and application to ensure timely service
           resumption; and
          v) adopt multi-cloud strategy, with the use of services from different cloud
            service providers to mitigate concentration risks and geopolitical risks.


6. Interoperability and Portability
Interoperability standards for cloud services continue to evolve such that porting data,
related configuration and security logging across different cloud service providers may
be challenging. To facilitate the smooth process of interoperability and portability
between on-premise IT systems or alternate cloud service providers,  financial
institutions are encouraged to:
   (a) assess  technical requirements  for  interoperability and  portability  prior  to
       entering into an agreement or arrangement with the cloud service providers to
      avoid vendor lock-in;



27 Point-in-time refers to the ability to preserve and retrieve the state of a virtual machine or system at
a specific moment.
28  The  alternate  sites  and  recovery  sites  could  either  be  in-house  arrangements,  or
available through agreement with third-party recovery facility provider, or a combination of both options.


Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   62 of 67


   (b) maintain a list of third party service providers and tools that are needed to
        facilitate a smooth transition;
   (c) ensure usage of standardized network and communication protocols for ease
       of interoperability and portability with on-premise IT systems or alternate cloud
       platforms;
   (d) ensure the use of common electronic data formats, where applicable, to ease
      the movement of data between cloud service providers or to on-premises IT
      system; and
   (e) extend patch and EOL management to ensure technology solutions employed
      remain effective and protected against system vulnerabilities.


7. Exit strategy
   (a) A financial institution should establish a robust cloud exit strategy as part of its
      cloud risk management framework to prepare for extreme adverse events such
      as the unplanned failure or termination of cloud service providers. The exit
       strategy should:
               i) be developed during the cloud deployment planning phase rather than on
          an ex-post basis;
                ii) identify alternative cloud service providers (multi-cloud approach) or third-
            party solutions, or other such means to ensure no business recovery
            objectives disruption or vendor lock-in;
                 iii) be properly documented including details on the various exit trigger
            scenarios, roles and responsibilities, and sufficient resources to manage
              exit plans and the transition activities; and
            iv) be updated in a timely manner to reflect any material developments.


   (b) A financial institution’s exit strategy should be supported by an appropriate and
       proportionate  exit plan  that establishes the operational arrangements  to
        facilitate an orderly exit from an agreement or arrangement with cloud service
       provider, including the following:
               i) conduct impact assessment to determine potential costs, resources, and
            timing implications of transferring cloud services to an alternative cloud
            service providers or rely on the in-house arrangement at the financial
              institution;
                ii) identify appropriate methods to port data and applications to an alternative
           arrangement;
                 iii) to obtain  written confirmation or  attestation from the cloud service
            providers or independent external service providers that all sensitive data
          has been securely deleted from the cloud service provider’s system upon
           completion of the exit process; and
            iv) conduct testing to validate the effectiveness of the exit plan, to obtain a
           reasonable degree of assurance of its effectiveness.



Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   63 of 67



8. Cryptographic key management
   (a) A financial institution should implement appropriate and relevant encryption
      techniques to protect the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive data stored on
      the cloud.
   (b) A financial institution should ensure its policies and procedures on cryptography
      are extended to cover cloud services where relevant, to promote the adoption
       of strong cryptographic controls.
   (c) Where appropriate and feasible, financial institutions should retain ownership
     and control of the encryption keys (themselves or with an independent key
       custodian), independent from the cloud service provider, to minimize the risk of
      unauthorised access to the data hosted on the cloud.
   (d) As the usage of cloud adoption increases, managing many encryption keys
     used for protecting data has become more complex and may introduce new
      challenges  for financial  institutions. A  financial  institution should adopt a
      comprehensive and centralized approach to key management including the use
       of centralised key management system that can handle generations, storage
     and distribution of keys in a secure and scalable manner.


9. Access Controls
   (a) The management plane  is a key  security difference between  traditional
       infrastructure and cloud computing where remote access  is supported by
       default.  This  access  layer  could  be  prone  to  cyber-attacks  thereby
      compromising the integrity of the entire cloud deployment. In view of this,
       financial Institutions should ensure the use of strong controls for accessing the
     management plane which may include the following:
               i) allocate dedicated and effectively hardened endpoints and up to date
           patching of software to access the management plane;
                ii) implement “least privilege” and strong multi-factor authentication (MFA)
              e.g., strong password, soft token, privileged access management tool and
          maker-checker functions;
                 iii) employ granular entitlement allocation for privileged users;
            iv) conduct continuous monitoring of the activities performed by privileged
            users; and
          v) ensure secure communication protocols are in place for accessing the
         management plane. e.g., secure end-to-end communication channels,
             whitelisting of IP addresses, etc.
   (b) A financial institution should extend its user access matrix to cover user access
       rights for both the financial institution and its cloud service providers where
       relevant for the ongoing access to cloud services.
   (c) A financial institution should ensure their tenant access controls to all hypervisor
     management  functions  or  administrative  consoles  for  systems  hosting




Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   64 of 67


       virtualized systems are  effectively implemented  in accordance  with  the
      requirements and guidance under the Access Control section (paragraphs
      10.52 to 10.60) of this policy document. These controls should mitigate the risk
       of any unauthorised access to the hypervisor management functions and virtual
      machine.
   (d) Point-to-point connections with cloud services may proliferate with the ease of
      cloud adoption, resulting in fragmentation of identity and access management
     and the risk of unsanctioned data being migrated to the cloud. In view of this,
       rigorous planning  is recommended for the design of identity and access
     management as it is inherently complex. Financial institutions are encouraged
        to:
               i) where appropriate and commensurate with the size and complexity of the
           cloud adoption, implement a federated29 approach for identity and access
         management  to  mitigate  risks  of  identities  in cloud services being
             disjointed from the internal identities, unauthorised access and to ease
           user access management; and
                ii) consider additional attributes in context-aware decisions for identity and
          access management such as pattern of access to further mitigate the risks
           associated with remote access.


10. Cybersecurity Operations
   (a) A financial institution should ensure the governance and management of
       cybersecurity operations is extended to cover cloud services, with appropriate
       control measures to prevent, detect, and respond to cyber incidents in the cloud
      environment to maintain the overall security posture of the institution.
   (b) The interconnected cloud service supply chain could become a source of cyber
        risk. A financial institution should ensure integrated monitoring and full visibility
       of cloud services are established. This should include the following:
               i) continuous monitoring of system communications between the cloud
            service provider, on-premise IT systems and other service providers to
          ensure the security perimeter is not breached; and
                ii) ensuring that third party service providers, including those providing
             ancillary functions, have adequate capabilities to monitor, detect and
          respond  to anomalous  activities,  with  timely communication  to the
             financial institution of relevant cyber incidents.

   (c) A financial institution should understand the segregation of responsibility in
       security management, which varies across the cloud service models. A financial




29 Federated approach for identity and access management is a process  / arrangement between
multiple systems or enterprises that enables users to use the same identification data to access all
related networks.


Issued on: 1 June 2023
 Risk Management in Technology                                   65 of 67


         institution should manage the sources of vulnerabilities appropriately including
       by:
                i) proactively seeking assurance of their cloud service providers to conduct
             periodic VAPT on the cloud infrastructure to ensure tenant isolation and
             overall security posture remains healthy; and
                 ii) understanding the cloud service provider’s VAPT policy for the financial
               institution on cloud infrastructure for IaaS model given the varying degree
              of the financial institution’s access to the cloud environment and establish
          a VAPT  arrangement  with  cloud  service  providers  upfront  which
          commensurate with the complexity of the cloud environment.


 11. Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
    (a) A  financial  institution should ensure  that  its DDoS  mitigation service  is
      commensurate with the size and complexity of the cloud adoption.
    (b) The risk of a single point of failure (SPOF) may surface when a financial
         institution leverages solely on a cloud-based solution to mitigate DDoS attacks.
      As such, a financial institution is encouraged to engage alternative DDOS
        mitigation providers or establish circuit breakers to avoid service disruption
      when the main DDOS mitigation provider is disrupted.


12. Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
     (a) A financial institution should protect the data hosted in cloud services as
       required under the Data Loss Prevention section (paragraphs 11.14 to 11.16)
        of this policy document, including the expansion of the endpoint footprint if the
        financial institution allows  its staff to use their own devices to access the
        sensitive data.
    (b) As it becomes increasingly easy to distribute digital content to customers via
       cloud services, a financial institution should adopt the appropriate digital rights
      management mechanism to preserve the confidentiality of its proprietary and
      customer information.


13. Security Operations Centre (SOC)
     (a) A financial institution should understand the scope of cloud service providers’
        responsibility for cybersecurity monitoring and adapt  its SOC strategy and
       processes to ensure proactive and holistic monitoring of  its cybersecurity
       posture. This adaptation should include the  ability to  effectively improve
       cybersecurity telemetry and analysis to detect and respond to cyber threats.
     (b) Where applicable, the responsibilities of cloud service providers with respect to
     SOC operations should be formalised in the  agreement or arrangement
      between the financial institution and the cloud service providers, including the
        retention period required for relevant logs needed for forensic purposes and the
         right of the financial institution to access the logs for quick restoration as and



 Issued on: 1 June 2023
 Risk Management in Technology                                   66 of 67


      when needed,  in accordance with the requirements and guidance under the
      Access Control section (paragraphs 10.52 to 10.60) and Security of Digital
       Services section (paragraphs 10.64 to 10.80) of this policy document.


14. Cyber response and recovery
     (a) A financial institution should enhance existing cyber crisis management policies
      and procedures to remain in a state of readiness to respond to cyber threats in
      a cloud environment.
     (b) A financial institution should extend its Cyber Incident Response Plan (CIRP)
        to include adverse scenarios that may affect cloud services and establish clear
        roles and responsibilities between the financial institution and cloud service
       providers  for incident response and remediation. The incident escalation
       process and turnaround time should be established with cloud service providers
      and periodically reviewed, to achieve an effective incident response.
     (c) A financial institution should consider the following additional measures in the
      development of its CIRP:
                i) enhance its ability to detect security breach incidents to achieve effective
             incident management, including the ability to detect data leakage on the
            dark web;
                 ii) provide adequate assistance to customers in the event of a security
           breach  in  view  that  the  complexity  of  cloud  arrangements  and
             sophistication  of  cyber-attacks  often  exceed  the  response  range
            reasonably expected of customers; and
                  iii) ensure CIRP is ready to manage cross-border incidents where the data
            resides in a foreign jurisdiction.
     (d) A financial institution should ensure that relevant Cyber Emergency Response
     Team (CERT) members are conversant with the CIRP covering cloud services
        to effectively activate the CIRP when incidents occur.
     (e) A financial institution should extend its existing incident reporting requirements
        to include cloud services.
      (f) A financial institution should enter into agreements or arrangements with its
       cloud service providers to conduct integrated business continuity testing and
       cyber drill in accordance with the requirement on testing of disaster recovery
       plan in paragraph 9.48 and 9.50 of the Bank’s policy document on Business
        Continuity Management (BCM) and paragraphs 11.22 to 11.27 relating to cyber
       response and recovery under this policy document to test the effectiveness of
       the financial institution’s CIRP and recovery plan.
     (g) A financial institution should review its loss provision arrangements to ensure
          its adequacy to cover cyber incidents based on its scenario analysis of extreme
       adverse events. Where cyber insurance is adopted to mitigate impact of cyber
        incidents, the financial institution should:





 Issued on: 1 June 2023
Risk Management in Technology                                   67 of 67


               i) understand the cyber insurance policy scope to ensure  it adequately
           covers the information security events and liability types identified;
                ii) understand  the  insurance  policy  or  takaful  certificate’s  terms and
            conditions such as the accuracy of financial institution’s attestation on its
           cyber  risk management  capability and  its on-going  responsibility  in
            information security management to ensure any changes  to the IT
            services and associated control measures do not result in unintended
           exclusions from the insurance policy or takaful certificate; and
                 iii) continue to strengthen cloud risk management to mitigate likelihood of
           cyber incidents from materialising.





Issued on: 1 June 2023
