       Risk Management in Technology (RMiT)





Applicable to:
1.  Licensed banks
2.  Licensed investment banks
3.  Licensed Islamic banks
4.  Licensed insurers including professional reinsurers
5.  Licensed takaful operators including professional retakaful operators
6.  Prescribed development financial institutions
7. Approved issuer of electronic money
8.  Operator of a designated payment system



Issued on: 19 June 2020                                 BNM/RH/PD 028-98
Risk Management in Technology                                    2 of 50

                    TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART A OVERVIEW ............................................................................................... 3
  1            Introduction ....................................................................................... 3
  2             Applicability ....................................................................................... 3
  3           Legal provision .................................................................................. 3
  4            Effective date .................................................................................... 4
  5             Interpretation ..................................................................................... 4
  6           Related legal instruments and policy documents .............................. 6
  7            Policy documents and circulars superseded ..................................... 6

PART B  POLICY REQUIREMENTS ....................................................................... 8
  8          Governance ...................................................................................... 8
  9          Technology Risk Management ........................................................ 10
  10         Technology Operations Management ............................................. 11
  11          Cybersecurity Management ............................................................ 26
  12         Technology Audit ............................................................................ 31
  13           Internal Awareness and Training .................................................... 32

PART C REGULATORY PROCESS ..................................................................... 33
  14            Notification for Technology-Related Applications ............................ 33
  15         Assessment and Gap Analysis ....................................................... 34

APPENDICES .................................................................................................................. 35

  Appendix 1   Storage and Transportation of Sensitive Data
                   in Removable Media...................................................................... 35

  Appendix 2   Control Measures on Self-service Terminals (SST) ...................... 36

  Appendix 3   Control Measures on Internet Banking .......................................... 39

  Appendix 4   Control Measures on Mobile Application and Devices .................. 40

  Appendix 5   Control Measures on Cybersecurity .............................................. 41

  Appendix 6   Positive List for Enhancements to Electronic Banking, Internet
                Insurance and Internet Takaful Services ....................................... 42

  Appendix 7   Risk Assessment Report ............................................................... 46

  Appendix 8   Format of Confirmation.................................................................. 48

  Appendix 9   Supervisory Expectations on External Party Assurance................ 49





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                    3 of 50

PART A   OVERVIEW

1      Introduction

1.1    Technology  risk refers  to  risks emanating from the use  of information
       technology (IT) and the Internet. These risks arise from failures or breaches
         of IT systems, applications, platforms or infrastructure, which could result in
         financial loss, disruptions in financial services or operations, or reputational
      harm to a financial institution.

1.2    With the more prevalent use of technology in the provision of financial
        services, there is a need for financial institutions to strengthen their technology
        resilience against operational disruptions  to maintain confidence  in the
         financial system. The growing sophistication of cyber threats also calls for the
       increased vigilance and capability of financial  institutions to respond to
       emerging threats. Critically, this should ensure the continuous availability of
        essential financial services to customers and adequate protection of customer
        data.

1.3     This policy document sets out the Bank’s requirements with regard to financial
         institutions’ management  of  technology  risk.  In  complying  with  these
        requirements, a  financial  institution  shall have regard  to the size and
        complexity of its operations. Accordingly, larger and more complex financial
         institutions are expected to demonstrate risk management practices and
        controls that are commensurate with the increased technology risk exposure
         of the institution. In addition, all financial institutions shall observe minimum
        prescribed standards in this policy document to prevent the exploitation of
      weak links in interconnected networks and systems that may cause detriment
         to other financial institutions and the wider financial system. The control
       measures set out in Appendices 1 to 5 serve as a guide for sound practices in
        defined areas. Financial institutions should be prepared to explain alternative
         risk management practices that depart from the control measures outlined in
        the Appendices and demonstrate  their effectiveness  in addressing the
         financial institution’s technology risk exposure.

2       Applicability

2.1     This policy document is applicable to all financial institutions as defined in
       paragraph 5.2.

3      Legal provision

3.1    The requirements in this policy document are specified pursuant to—
         (a)  Sections 47(1) and 143(2) of the Financial Services Act 2013 (FSA);
         (b)  Sections 57(1) and 155(2) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013
             (IFSA); and
         (c)  Sections 41(1) and 116(1) of the Development Financial Institutions Act
           2002 (DFIA).



Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                    4 of 50

3.2    The guidance in this policy document are issued pursuant to section 266 of
        the FSA, section 277 of the IFSA and section 126 of the DFIA.

4      Effective date

4.1     This policy document comes into effect on 1 January 2020.

5       Interpretation

5.1    The terms and expressions used in this policy document shall have the same
       meanings assigned to them in the FSA, IFSA or DFIA, as the case may be,
       unless otherwise defined in this policy document.

5.2    For purposes of this policy document –

      “S” denotes a standard, an obligation, a requirement, specification, direction,
        condition and any interpretative, supplemental and transitional provisions that
       must be complied with. Non-compliance may result in enforcement action;

      “G” denotes guidance which may consist of statements or information
       intended to promote common understanding and advice or recommendations
         that are encouraged to be adopted;

       “board” refers to the board of directors of a financial institution, including any
       committee carrying out any of the responsibilities of the board under this policy
       document;

         “critical system” refers to any application system that supports the provision
         of critical banking, insurance or payment services, where failure of the system
       has the potential to significantly impair the financial institution’s provision of
         financial  services  to customers  or  counterparties, business operations,
         financial  position,  reputation,  or compliance  with  applicable laws and
        regulatory requirements;

      “customer and counterparty information” refers to any information relating
         to the affairs or, in particular, the account, of any customer or counterparty of
      a financial institution in whatever form;

       “cyber resilience” refers to the ability of people, processes, IT systems,
        applications, platforms or infrastructures to withstand adverse cyber events;

       “cyber  risk”  refers  to  threats  or  vulnerabilities  emanating  from  the
        connectivity of internal technology infrastructure to external networks or the
         Internet;

        “digital services” refers  to the provision of payment, banking, Islamic
       banking, insurance or takaful services delivered to customers via electronic
       channels and devices including Internet and mobile devices, self-service and
        point-of-sale terminals;


Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                    5 of 50


        “financial institution” refers to-
         (a)  a licensed person under the FSA and the IFSA (excluding branches of a
             foreign professional reinsurer and a professional retakaful operator);
         (b)  a prescribed development financial institution under the DFIA;
         (c)  an eligible issuer of e-money as defined in the policy document on
             Interoperable Credit Transfer Framework1; and
         (d)  an operator of a designated payment system;

       “large financial institution” refers to-
         (a)  a financial institution with one or more business lines that are significant
               in terms of market share in the relevant industry; or
         (b)  a financial institution with a large network of offices within or outside
            Malaysia through operations of branches and subsidiaries;

       “material technology projects” refers to projects which involve  critical
       systems, the delivery of essential services to customers or counterparties, or
       compliance with regulatory requirements;

      “OTP or one-time password” refers to an alphanumeric or numeric code
       represented by a minimum of 6 characters or digits which is valid only for
        single use;

       “public cloud” refers to a fully virtualised environment in which a service
        provider makes resources such as platforms, applications or storage available
        to  the  public  over  the  Internet  via a  logically  separated  multi-tenant
        architecture;

       “production data centre” refers to any facility which hosts active critical
        production application systems irrespective of location;

       "recovery data centre" refers to a facility that a financial institution plans to
        activate to recover and restore its IT applications and operations upon failure
        of its production data centre irrespective of location;

       “senior management” refers to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and senior
         officers;

        “third party service provider” refers to an internal group affiliate or external
         entity providing technology-related functions or services that involve the
        transmission, processing, storage or handling of  confidential information
        pertaining to the financial institution or its customers. This includes cloud
       computing software, platform and infrastructure service providers.





1 For ease of reference, an “eligible issuer of e-money” is defined as an approved issuer of electronic
money with substantial market presence based on the criteria set out in Appendix 1 of the policy
document on Interoperable Credit Transfer Framework.

Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                    6 of 50


6      Related legal instruments and policy documents

6.1     This  policy document must be read  together  with any  relevant  legal
        instruments,  policy documents and  guidelines issued by  the Bank,  in
        particular—
         (a)   Policy Document on Risk Governance;
         (b)   Policy Document on Compliance;
         (c)   Policy Document on Outsourcing;
         (d)   Policy Document on Operational Risk;
         (e)   Policy Document on  Operational  Risk  Reporting  Requirement  –
             Operational Risk Integrated Online Network (ORION);
           (f)   Policy Document on Introduction of New Products;
         (g)   Policy Document on Interoperable Credit Transfer Framework;
         (h)  Guidelines on Business Continuity Management (Revised);
            (i)   Provisions under paragraphs 21, 22 and 26 of the Guidelines on the
             Provision  of  Electronic Banking (e-banking) Services by Financial
               Institutions;
            (j)   Provisions under paragraphs 28 and 29 of the Guidelines on Internet
            Insurance (Consolidated);
         (k)   Guidelines on Data Management and MIS Framework;
            (l)   Guidelines on Data Management and MIS Framework for Development
             Financial Institutions; and
       (m)  Paragraphs 3 and 5 of the Circular on Internet Takaful2.

7      Policy documents and circulars superseded

7.1     This policy document supersedes the following circulars, guidelines and policy
       documents:
         (a)  Guidelines on Management of IT Environment (GPIS 1) issued in May
            2004;
         (b)  Preparedness against Distributed Denial of Service Attack issued on 17
            October 2011;
         (c)  Managing  Inherent Risk  of  Internet Banking Kiosks issued on 5
          December 2011;
         (d)   Circular on Managing Risks of Malware Attacks on Automated Teller
           Machine (ATM) issued on 3 October 2014;
         (e)  Managing Cyber Risk Circular issued on 31 July 2015;
           (f)   Guidelines on the Provision of Electronic Banking (e-banking) Services
           by Financial Institutions, except for the provisions under paragraphs 21,
           22 and 26;
         (g)  Guidelines on  Internet  Insurance  (Consolidated),  except  for  the
             provisions under paragraphs 28 and 29;
         (h)   Circular on Internet Takaful, except for paragraphs 3 and 5;
            (i)   Letter to CEO dated 31 October 2017 entitled “Immediate Measures for
           Managing identification of Counterfeit Malaysian Currency Notes at
            Deposit-Accepting Self Service Terminals (SST)”;


2 For the avoidance of doubt, only the requirements not superseded in this policy document are
applicable.

Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                    7 of 50

            (j)   Letter to CEO dated 7 November 2017 entitled “Guidelines on the
             Provision  of  Electronic Banking  (e-banking) Services by Financial
               Institutions (“Guidelines”) – Specification Pursuant to the Financial
            Services Act 2013 (“FSA”), Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 (“IFSA”)
           and Development Financial Institutions Act 2002 (“DFIA”)”;
         (k)   Letter  to CEO  dated 10 November 2017  entitled  “Storage and
             Transportation of Sensitive Data in Removable Media”;
            (l)   Letter to CEO dated 17 May 2018 entitled “Guidelines on Internet
            Insurance (Consolidated) (“Guidelines”) and Circular on Internet Takaful
              (“the Circular’) – Specification Pursuant to the Financial Services Act
           2013 (“FSA”) and Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 (“IFSA”)”;
       (m)  Letter to CEO dated 11 December 2018 entitled “Leveraging on cloud
             services and upliftment of mobile banking condition”; and
         (n)   Letter to CEO dated 18 November 2019 entitled "Guidelines on the
             Provision  of  Electronic Banking (e-banking) Services by Financial
               Institutions, Guidelines on Internet Insurance (Consolidated), Circular on
              Internet Takaful - Specification Pursuant to the Financial Services Act
           2013 ("FSA"), Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 ("IFSA") and the
           Development Financial Institutions Act 2002 ("DFIA")”.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                    8 of 50

   PART B    POLICY REQUIREMENTS

   8     Governance

    Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
S   8.1    The board must establish and approve the technology risk appetite which is
            aligned with the financial institution’s risk appetite statement. In doing so, the
           board must approve the corresponding risk tolerances for technology-related
           events and ensure key performance indicators and forward-looking  risk
             indicators are in place to monitor the financial institution’s technology risk
            against  its  approved  risk  tolerance. The  board  must  ensure  senior
         management provides regular updates on the status of these indicators
            together with sufficiently detailed information on key technology risks and
               critical technology operations to facilitate strategic decision-making.

S   8.2    The board must ensure and oversee the adequacy of the financial institution’s
            IT and cybersecurity strategic plans covering a period of no less than three
            years. These plans shall address the financial institution’s requirements on
             infrastructure, control measures to mitigate IT and cyber risk and financial and
             non-financial resources, which are commensurate with the complexity of the
             financial institution’s operations and changes in the risk profile as well as the
           business environment. These plans shall be periodically reviewed, at least
          once every three years.

S   8.3    The board shall be responsible to oversee the effective implementation of a
          sound and robust technology risk management framework (TRMF) and cyber
             resilience framework (CRF), as required to be developed under paragraphs
            9.1 and 11.2, for the financial institution to ensure the continuity of operations
          and delivery of financial services. The TRMF is a framework to safeguard the
             financial institution’s information infrastructure, systems and data, whilst the
        CRF is a framework for ensuring the financial institution’s cyber resilience. The
           board must ensure that the financial institution’s TRMF and CRF remain
            relevant on an ongoing basis. The board must also periodically review and
             affirm the TRMF and CRF, at least once every three years to guide the financial
              institution’s management of technology risks.

S   8.4    The board must designate a board-level committee3 which shall be responsible
              for supporting the board  in  providing oversight over technology-related
            matters. Among other things, the committee shall review the technology-
            related frameworks including the requirements spelt out in paragraphs 8.1
           through 8.3, for the board’s approval, and ensure that risk assessments
           undertaken in relation to material technology applications submitted to the
          Bank are robust and comprehensive.




      3 A financial institution may either designate an existing board committee or establish a separate
    committee for this purpose. Where such a committee is separate from the Board Risk Committee (BRC),
     there must be appropriate interface between this committee and the BRC on technology risk-related
     matters to ensure effective oversight of all risks at the enterprise level.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                    9 of 50

G  8.5    To  promote  effective  technology  discussions  at  the  board  level,  the
           composition of the board and the designated board-level committee should
            include at least a member with technology experience and competencies.

S   8.6    Given the rapidly evolving cyber threat landscape, the board shall allocate
              sufficient time to discuss cyber risks and related issues, including the strategic
          and reputational risks associated with a cyber-incident. This shall be supported
          by input from external experts as appropriate. The board must also ensure its
           continuous engagement  in  cybersecurity  preparedness,  education and
              training.

S   8.7    The board audit committee (BAC) is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness
             of the internal technology audit function. This includes ensuring the adequate
          competence of the audit staff to perform technology audits. The BAC shall
           review and ensure appropriate audit scope, procedures and frequency of
           technology audits. The BAC must also ensure effective oversight over the
           prompt closure of corrective actions to address technology control gaps.

    Responsibilities of the senior management

S   8.8   A financial institution’s senior management must translate the board-approved
        TRMF and CRF into specific policies and procedures that are consistent with
            the approved risk appetite and risk tolerance and supported by effective
            reporting and escalation procedures.

S   8.9    The senior management must establish a cross-functional committee to
            provide guidance on the financial institution’s technology plans and operations.
         Members of the committee must include senior management from both
           technology   functions  and  major  business   units.  The  committee’s
             responsibilities shall include the following:
             (a)  oversee the formulation and effective implementation of the strategic
               technology plan and associated technology policies and procedures;
             (b)  provide timely updates to the board on key technology matters4; and
              (c)  approve any deviation from technology-related  policies  after having
                  carefully considered a robust assessment  of related  risks. Material
                 deviations shall be reported to the board.

S  8.10   Senior management must ensure the adequate allocation of resources to
            maintain robust technology systems and appropriately skilled and competent
              staff to support the effective management of technology risk.

S  8.11   For large financial institutions, senior management must embed appropriate
            oversight arrangements  within  the  technology  function  to  support  the
            enterprise-wide oversight  of technology  risk. These arrangements must
            provide for designated staff responsible for the identification, assessment and


      4 Key technology matters include updates on critical systems’ performance, significant IT and cyber-
     incidents, management of technology obsolescence risk, status of patch deployment activities for critical
     technology infrastructure, proposals for and progress of strategic technology projects, performance of
      critical technology outsourcing activities and utilisation of the technology budget.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   10 of 50

             mitigation of technology risks who do not engage in day-to-day technology
            operations.

S  8.12   For the purpose of paragraph 8.11 and all other requirements applicable to
            large financial institutions under this policy document, each financial institution
             shall conduct a self-assessment on whether it is a large financial institution in
           accordance with the definition in paragraph 5.2. The self-assessment shall
            take into account–
             (a) the complexity of the financial institution’s operations, having particular
               regard to the interconnectedness of its operations with other financial
                   institutions, customers and counterparties that are driven by technology;
             (b) the number and size of the financial institution’s significant business lines
                together with its market share5 (e.g. in terms of assets, liabilities, revenue
             and premiums);
              (c)  the number of subsidiaries, branches and agents; and
             (d) other business considerations that could give rise to technology risk.

S  8.13   Notwithstanding the self-assessment  in paragraph  8.12, the Bank may
           designate a financial  institution as a large financial  institution and such
             financial institutions shall comply with all requirements in this policy document
            applicable to a large financial institution.

   9     Technology Risk Management

S   9.1   A financial institution must ensure that the TRMF is an integral part of the
             financial institution’s enterprise risk management framework (ERM).

S   9.2    The TRMF must include the following:
             (a)  clear definition of technology risk;
             (b)  clear responsibilities assigned for the management of technology risk at
                   different levels and across functions, with appropriate governance and
                 reporting arrangements;
              (c)  the identification of technology risks to which the financial institution is
               exposed,  including  risks  from  the  adoption  of new  or  emerging
                technology;
             (d)  risk classification of all information assets/systems based on its criticality;
             (e)  risk measurement and assessment approaches and methodologies;
                 (f)   risk controls and mitigations; and
             (g)  continuous monitoring to timely detect and address any material risks.

S   9.3   A  financial  institution  must  establish  an  independent  enterprise-wide
           technology risk management function which is responsible for—

      5 Size is an indicator of the potential systemic impact that any failure or breach of the financial institution’s
     IT systems may have on the broader financial system. When determining the significance of its size, the
      financial institution shall consider the extent to which the broader market segment may be unable to
    access relevant financial services in the event of a disruption to its systems. It should also consider the
     extent to which the operations of other institutions may be disrupted due to a reliance on services
     provided by the financial institution that may not be immediately substitutable.


     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   11 of 50

             (a)  implementing the TRMF and CRF;
             (b)  advising on critical technology projects and ensuring critical issues that
            may have an impact on the financial  institution’s risk tolerance are
               adequately deliberated or escalated in a timely manner; and
              (c)  providing independent views to the board and senior management on
                   third party assessments6, where necessary.

S   9.4   A financial institution must designate a Chief Information Security Officer
           (CISO), by whatever name called, to be responsible for the technology risk
         management function of the financial institution. The financial institution must
           ensure that the CISO has sufficient authority, independence and resources7.
         The CISO shall—
             (a) be independent from day-to-day technology operations;
             (b) keep apprised of current and emerging technology risks which could
                  potentially affect the financial institution’s risk profile; and
              (c)  be appropriately certified.

S   9.5    The CISO is responsible for ensuring the financial institution’s information
           assets and technologies are adequately protected, which includes—
             (a)  formulating appropriate policies for the effective implementation of TRMF
              and CRF;
             (b)  enforcing  compliance  with  these  policies,  frameworks  and  other
                technology-related regulatory requirements; and
              (c)  advising senior management on technology risk and security matters,
                 including developments in the financial institution’s technology security
                   risk profile in relation to its business and operations.

   10    Technology Operations Management

   Technology Project Management

S  10.1   A financial institution must establish appropriate governance requirements
          commensurate  with  the  risk  and  complexity8  of  technology  projects
           undertaken. This shall include project oversight roles and responsibilities,
             authority and reporting structures, and  risk assessments throughout the
             project life cycle.

S  10.2   The risk assessments shall identify and address the key risks arising from the
           implementation of technology projects. These include the risks that could

      6 Relevant third party assessments may include the Data Centre Risk Assessment (DCRA), Network
     Resilience and Risk Assessment (NRA) and independent assurance for introduction of new or enhanced
      digital services.
      7 A financial institution’s CISO may take guidance from the expertise of a group-level CISO, in or outside
      of Malaysia, and may also hold other roles and responsibilities. Such designated CISO shall be
     accountable for and serve as the point of contact with the Bank on the financial institution's technology-
     related matters, including managing entity-specific risks, supporting prompt incident response and
     reporting to the financial institution’s board.
      8 For example, large-scale integration projects or those involving critical systems should be subject to
    more stringent project governance requirements such as more frequent reporting to the board and senior
    management, more experienced project managers and sponsors, more frequent milestone reviews and
     independent quality assurance at major project approval stages.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   12 of 50

            threaten successful project implementation and the risks that a project failure
                will lead  to a broader impact on  the  financial  institution's  operational
              capabilities. At a minimum, due regard shall be given to the following areas:
             (a)  the adequacy and competency of resources including those of the vendor
                  to effectively implement the project. This shall also take into consideration
                the number, size and duration of significant technology projects already
               undertaken concurrently by the financial institution;
             (b)  the complexity of systems to be implemented such as the use of unproven
                 or unfamiliar technology and the corresponding risks of integrating the
            new  technology  into  existing  systems, managing  multiple  vendor-
                 proprietary technologies, large-scale data migration or cleansing efforts
              and extensive system customisation;
              (c)  the adequacy and configuration of security controls throughout the project
                       life cycle to mitigate cybersecurity breaches or exposure of confidential
                 data;
             (d)  the comprehensiveness of the user requirement specifications to mitigate
                  risks from extensive changes in project scope or deficiencies in meeting
               business needs;
             (e)  the robustness of system and user testing strategies to reduce risks of
               undiscovered system faults and functionality errors;
                 (f)  the appropriateness of system deployment and fallback strategies to
                 mitigate risks from prolonged system stability issues; and
             (g)  the adequacy of disaster recovery operational readiness following the
                implementation of new or enhanced systems.

S  10.3   The board and senior management must receive and review timely reports on
            the management  of  these  risks on an ongoing  basis  throughout  the
           implementation of significant projects.

   System Development and Acquisition

G  10.4  A financial institution should establish an enterprise architecture framework
          (EAF) that provides a holistic view of technology throughout the financial
               institution. The EAF is an overall technical design and high-level plan that
           describes the financial institution’s technology infrastructure, systems’ inter-
             connectivity and security controls. The EAF facilitates the conceptual design
          and maintenance of the network infrastructure, related technology controls and
              policies, and serves as a foundation on which financial institutions plan and
             structure system development and acquisition strategies to meet business
            goals.

S  10.5  A financial institution must establish clear risk management policies and
            practices for the key phases of the system development life cycle (SDLC)
          encompassing system design, development, testing, deployment, change
          management,  maintenance  and  decommissioning.  Such  policies  and
            practices must also embed security and relevant enterprise architecture
            considerations into the SDLC to ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability




     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   13 of 50

             of data9. The policies and practices must be reviewed at least once every three
           years  to ensure  that they remain  relevant  to the  financial  institution’s
           environment.

G  10.6  A financial institution is encouraged to deploy automated tools for software
           development,  testing, software deployment, change management, code
           scanning and software version control to support more secure systems
           development.

S  10.7  A financial institution shall consider the need for diversity10 in technology to
          enhance  resilience by  ensuring  critical  systems  infrastructure  are  not
            excessively exposed to similar technology risks.

S  10.8  A financial institution must establish a sound methodology for rigorous system
             testing prior to deployment. The testing shall ensure that the system meets
           user requirements and performs robustly. Where sensitive test data is used,
            the financial institution must ensure proper authorisation procedures and
          adequate measures to prevent their unauthorised disclosure are in place.

G  10.9   The scope of system testing referred to in paragraph 10.8 should include unit
              testing,  integration  testing, user acceptance  testing, application security
              testing, stress and regression testing, and exception and negative testing,
          where applicable.

S  10.10  A financial institution must ensure any changes to the source code of critical
           systems are subject to adequate source code reviews to ensure code is secure
          and was developed in line with recognised coding practices prior to introducing
          any system changes.

S  10.11  In relation to critical systems that are developed and maintained by vendors, a
             financial institution must ensure the source code continues to be readily
           accessible and secured from unauthorised access.

S  10.12  A financial institution shall physically segregate the production environment
           from the development and testing environment for critical systems. Where a
             financial institution is relying on a cloud environment, the financial institution
             shall ensure that these environments are not running on the same virtual host.

S  10.13  A financial institution must establish appropriate procedures to independently
           review and approve system changes. The financial  institution must also
            establish  and  test  contingency  plans  in  the  event  of  unsuccessful
           implementation of material changes to minimise any business disruption.

S  10.14  Where a financial institution’s IT systems are managed by third party service
            providers, the financial institution shall ensure, including through contractual
             obligations, that the third party service providers provide sufficient notice to the

      9 The security considerations shall include ensuring appropriate segregation of duties throughout the
    SDLC.
      10 Diversity in technology may include the use of  different technology architecture designs and
     applications, technology platforms and network infrastructure.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   14 of 50

             financial institution before any changes are undertaken that may impact the IT
           systems.

S  10.15 When decommissioning critical systems, a financial institution must ensure
           minimal adverse impact on customers and business operations. This includes
            establishing and testing contingency plans in the event of unsuccessful system
           decommissioning.

    Cryptography

S  10.16  A financial institution must establish a robust and resilient cryptography policy
             to promote the adoption of strong cryptographic controls for protection of
            important data and information. This policy, at a minimum, shall address
           requirements for:
             (a)  the adoption of industry standards for encryption algorithms, message
                 authentication, hash functions, digital signatures and random number
                 generation;
             (b)  the adoption of robust and secure processes in managing cryptographic
               key lifecycles which include generation, distribution, renewal, usage,
                 storage, recovery, revocation and destruction;
              (c)  the periodic review, at least every three years, of existing cryptographic
               standards  and  algorithms  in  critical  systems,  external  linked  or
                 transactional customer-facing  applications  to prevent  exploitation  of
             weakened algorithms or protocols; and
             (d)  the development and testing of compromise-recovery plans in the event
                  of a cryptographic key compromise. This must set out the escalation
                process, procedures for keys regeneration, interim measures, changes to
                business-as-usual protocols and containment strategies or options to
               minimise the impact of a compromise.

S  10.17  A financial institution shall ensure clear senior-level roles and responsibilities
           are assigned for the effective implementation of the cryptographic policy.

S  10.18  A  financial  institution  must  conduct  due  diligence  and  evaluate  the
            cryptographic controls associated with the technology used in order to protect
            the confidentiality, integrity, authentication, authorisation and non-repudiation
             of information. Where a  financial  institution does not generate  its own
            encryption keys, the financial institution shall undertake appropriate measures
             to ensure robust controls and processes are in place to manage encryption
            keys. Where this involves a reliance on third party assessments11, the financial
              institution shall consider whether such reliance is consistent with the financial
              institution’s risk appetite and tolerance. A financial institution must also give
          due regard to the system resources required to support the cryptographic
            controls and the risk of reduced network traffic visibility of data that has been
            encrypted.




      11 For example, where the financial institution is not able to perform its own validation on embedded
     cryptographic controls due to the proprietary nature of the software or confidentiality constraints.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   15 of 50

S  10.19  A financial institution must ensure cryptographic controls are based on the
             effective implementation of suitable cryptographic protocols. The protocols
             shall include secret and public cryptographic key protocols, both of which shall
              reflect a high degree  of  protection  to the applicable secret  or  private
            cryptographic keys. The selection of such protocols must be based on
           recognised international standards and tested accordingly. Commensurate
            with the level of risk, secret cryptographic key and private-cryptographic key
           storage and encryption/decryption computation must be undertaken in a
            protected environment, supported by a hardware security module (HSM) or
            trusted execution environment (TEE).

S  10.20 A financial institution shall store public cryptographic keys in a certificate issued
          by a certificate authority as appropriate to the level of risk. Such certificates
           associated with customers shall be issued by recognised certificate authorities.
         The financial institution must ensure that the implementation of authentication
          and signature protocols using such certificates are subject to strong protection
             to ensure that the use of private cryptographic keys corresponding to the user
             certificates are  legally binding and  irrefutable. The  initial issuance and
          subsequent renewal of such certificates must be consistent with industry best
            practices and applicable legal/regulatory specifications.

    Data Centre Resilience

    Data Centre Infrastructure

S  10.21  A financial institution must specify the resilience and availability objectives of
                its data centres which are aligned with its business needs. The network
             infrastructure must be designed to be resilient, secure and scalable. Potential
           data centre failures or disruptions must not significantly degrade the delivery
             of its financial services or impede its internal operations.

S  10.22  A financial institution must ensure production data centres are concurrently
            maintainable. This includes ensuring  that production data centres have
           redundant capacity components and distribution paths serving the computer
           equipment.

S  10.23   In addition to the requirement in paragraph 10.22, large financial institutions
           are  also  required  to  ensure  recovery  data  centres  are  concurrently
            maintainable.

S  10.24  A financial institution shall host critical systems in a dedicated space intended
              for production data centre usage. The dedicated space must be physically
           secured from unauthorised access and is not located in a disaster-prone area.
        A financial institution must also ensure there is no single point of failure (SPOF)
              in the design and connectivity for critical components of the production data
            centres,   including  hardware  components,   electrical    utility,  thermal
         management and data centre infrastructure. A financial institution must also
           ensure adequate maintenance, and holistic and continuous monitoring of
           these critical components with timely alerts on faults and indicators of potential
            issues.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   16 of 50


S  10.25  A financial institution is required to appoint a technically competent external
            service provider to carry out a production data centre resilience and risk
          assessment (DCRA) and set proportionate controls aligned with the financial
              institution’s risk appetite. The assessment must consider all major risks and
           determine the current level of resilience of the production data centre. A
             financial institution must ensure the assessment is conducted at least once
           every three years or whenever there is a material change in the data centre
             infrastructure, whichever is earlier. The assessment shall, at a minimum,
            include a consideration of whether the requirements in paragraphs 10.22 to
           10.24 have been adhered to. For data centres managed by third party service
            providers, a financial institution may rely on independent third party assurance
            reports provided such reliance is consistent with the financial institution’s risk
            appetite and tolerance, and the independent assurance has considered similar
             risks and meets the expectations in this paragraph for conducting the DCRA.
         The designated board-level committee must deliberate the outcome of the
           assessment.

    Data Centre Operations

S  10.26  A financial institution must ensure its capacity needs are well-planned and
         managed with due regard to business growth plans. This includes ensuring
          adequate system storage, central processing unit (CPU) power, memory and
           network bandwidth. A financial institution shall involve both the technology
            stakeholders and the relevant business stakeholders within the financial
              institution in its development and implementation of capacity management
            plans.

S  10.27 A financial institution must establish real-time monitoring mechanisms to track
            capacity utilisation and performance of key processes and services12. These
           monitoring mechanisms shall be capable of providing timely and actionable
             alerts to administrators.

S  10.28  A financial institution must segregate incompatible activities in the data centre
            operations environment to prevent any unauthorised activity13. In the case
          where vendors’ or programmers’ access to the production environment is
           necessary, these activities must be properly authorised and monitored.

S  10.29  A financial institution must establish adequate control procedures for its data
            centre operations, including the deployment of relevant automated tools for
           batch  processing management  to  ensure  timely and  accurate  batch
           processes. These  control procedures  shall also include procedures  for
           implementing changes in the production system, error handling as well as
         management of other exceptional conditions.

S  10.30  A financial institution is required to undertake an independent risk assessment
             of its end-to-end backup storage and delivery management to ensure that

      12 For example, batch runs and backup processes for the financial institution’s application systems and
      infrastructure.
      13 For example, system development activities must be segregated from data centre operations.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   17 of 50

             existing controls are adequate in protecting sensitive data at  all times. A
             financial institution must also maintain a sufficient number of backup copies of
               critical data, the updated version of the operating system software, production
           programs, system utilities, all master and transaction files and event logs for
           recovery purposes. Backup media must be stored in an environmentally
           secure and access-controlled backup site.

G  10.31   In regard to paragraph 10.30, a financial institution should also adopt the
            controls as specified in Appendix 1 or their equivalent to secure the storage
          and transportation of sensitive data in removable media.

S  10.32  Where there is a reasonable expectation for immediate delivery of service to
           customers or dealings with counterparties, a financial institution must ensure
             that the relevant critical systems are designed for high availability with a
           cumulative unplanned downtime affecting the interface with customers or
            counterparties of not more than 4 hours on a rolling 12 months basis and a
         maximum tolerable downtime of 120 minutes per incident.

   Network Resilience

S  10.33  A financial institution must design a reliable, scalable and secure enterprise
           network that is able to support its business activities, including future growth
            plans.

S  10.34 A financial institution must ensure the network services for its critical systems
           are reliable and have no SPOF in order to protect the critical systems against
             potential network faults and cyber threats14.

S  10.35 A financial institution must establish real-time network bandwidth monitoring
          processes and corresponding network service resilience metrics to flag any
           over  utilisation  of bandwidth and system  disruptions due  to bandwidth
           congestion and network faults. This includes traffic analysis to detect trends
          and anomalies.

S  10.36  A financial institution must ensure network services supporting critical systems
           are designed and implemented to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and
              availability of data.

S  10.37  A financial institution must establish and maintain a network design blueprint
             identifying all of its internal and external network interfaces and connectivity.
         The blueprint must highlight both physical and logical connectivity between
           network components and network segmentations.

S  10.38  A financial institution must ensure sufficient and relevant network device logs
           are retained for investigations and forensic purposes for at least three years.




      14 Measures implemented may include component redundancy, service diversity and alternate network
     paths.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   18 of 50

S  10.39  A financial institution must implement appropriate safeguards to minimise the
              risk of a system compromise in one entity affecting other entities within the
            group. Safeguards implemented may include establishing logical network
           segmentation for the financial institution from other entities within the group.

S  10.40  A financial institution is required to appoint a technically competent external
            service provider to carry out regular network resilience and risk assessments
          (NRA) and set proportionate controls aligned with  its risk appetite. The
          assessment must be conducted at least once in three years or whenever there
               is a material change in the network design. The assessment must consider all
           major risks and determine the current level of resilience. This shall include an
          assessment of the financial institution’s adherence to the requirements in
           paragraphs 10.33 to 10.39. The designated board-level committee must
            deliberate the outcome of the assessment.

    Third Party Service Provider Management

S  10.41  The board and senior management of the financial institution must exercise
             effective oversight and address associated risks when engaging third party
            service providers15 for critical technology functions and systems. Engagement
             of  third party service providers, including engagements  for independent
           assessments, does  not  in any way reduce  or  eliminate  the  principal
             accountabilities and responsibilities of financial institutions for the security and
               reliability of technology functions and systems.

S  10.42  A financial institution must conduct proper due diligence on the third party
            service provider’s competency, system infrastructure and financial viability as
            relevant prior to engaging its services. In addition, an assessment shall be
         made of the third party service provider’s capabilities in managing the following
             specific (a) data risks leakage  such  as  unauthorised  disclosure  of  customer  and
                counterparty information;
             (b)  service disruption including capacity performance;
              (c)  processing errors;
             (d)  physical security breaches;
             (e)  cyber threats;
                 (f)  over-reliance on key personnel;
             (g)  mishandling  of  confidential  information  pertaining  to  the  financial
                    institution or its customers in the course of transmission, processing or
                storage of such information; and
             (h)  concentration risk.

S  10.43  A financial institution must establish service-level agreements (SLA) when
           engaging third party service providers. At a minimum, the SLA shall contain
            the following:
             (a)  access rights for the regulator and any party appointed by the financial
                    institution to examine any activity or entity of the financial institution. This

      15 Financial institutions must adhere to the requirements in the Policy Document on Outsourcing for
    engagements with third party service providers that meet the definition of outsourcing arrangement as
     specified in the policy document.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   19 of 50

                  shall include access to any record, file or data of the financial institution,
                 including management information and the minutes of all consultative and
                decision-making processes;
             (b)  requirements for the service provider to provide sufficient prior notice to
                   financial institutions of any sub-contracting which is substantial;
              (c)  a written undertaking by the service provider on compliance with secrecy
                 provisions under relevant legislation. The SLA shall further clearly provide
                   for the service provider to be bound by confidentiality provisions stipulated
               under the contract even after the engagement has ended;
             (d)  arrangements  for  disaster  recovery and backup  capability, where
                 applicable;
             (e)  critical system availability; and
                 (f)  arrangements to secure business continuity  in the event of  exit or
                 termination of the service provider.

S  10.44  A financial institution must ensure its ability to regularly review the SLA with its
              third party service providers to take into account the latest security and
            technological developments in relation to the services provided.

S  10.45  A financial institution must ensure its third party service providers comply with
                all relevant regulatory requirements prescribed in this policy document16.

S  10.46  A financial institution must ensure data residing in third party service providers
           are recoverable in a timely manner. The financial institution shall ensure clearly
            defined arrangements with the third party service provider are in place to
               facilitate the financial institution’s immediate notification and timely updates to
            the Bank and other relevant regulatory bodies in the event of a cyber-incident.

S  10.47  A financial institution must ensure the storage of its data is at least logically
           segregated from the other clients of the third party service provider. There shall
          be proper controls over and periodic review of the access provided to
            authorised users.

S  10.48  A financial institution must ensure any critical system hosted by third party
            service  providers have  strong recovery and resumption  capability and
            provisions to facilitate an orderly exit in the event of failure or unsatisfactory
           performance by the third party service provider.

   Cloud Services

S  10.49  A financial institution must fully understand the inherent risk of adopting cloud
            services.  In  this regard, a  financial  institution  is required to conduct a
          comprehensive risk assessment prior to cloud adoption which considers the
            inherent architecture of cloud services that leverages on the sharing of
           resources and services across  multiple tenants over the  Internet. The
          assessment must specifically address risks associated with the following:
             (a)  sophistication of the deployment model;


      16 This includes specific requirements for system development and acquisition, data centre operations,
     network resilience, technology security and cybersecurity, wherever applicable.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   20 of 50

             (b)  migration of existing systems to cloud infrastructure;
              (c)  location of cloud infrastructure;
             (d)  multi-tenancy or data co-mingling;
             (e)  vendor lock-in and application portability or interoperability;
                 (f)   ability to customise security configurations of the cloud infrastructure to
               ensure a high level of data and technology system protection;
             (g)  exposure to cyber-attacks via cloud service providers;
             (h)  termination of a cloud service provider including the ability to secure the
                   financial institution’s data following the termination;
                   (i)  demarcation of responsibilities, limitations and  liability of the service
                 provider; and
                   (j)   ability to meet regulatory requirements and international standards on
                cloud computing on a continuing basis.

S  10.50  A financial institution must separately identify critical and non-critical systems
              prior to using any cloud services, guided by the definition of “critical system” in
           paragraph 5.2. A financial institution must notify the Bank of its intention to use
           cloud services for non-critical systems. The risk assessment as outlined in
           paragraph 10.49 must be documented and made available for the Bank’s
           review as and when requested by the Bank.

S  10.51  A financial institution is required to consult the Bank prior to the use of public
           cloud for critical systems. The financial institution is expected to demonstrate
             that specific risks associated with the use of cloud services for critical systems
          have been adequately considered and addressed. The risk assessment shall
           address the risks outlined in paragraph 10.49 as well as the following areas:
             (a)  the adequacy of the over-arching cloud adoption strategy of the financial
                    institution including:
                         (i)   board  oversight  over  cloud  strategy  and  cloud  operational
                  management;
                           (ii)   senior  management   roles  and   responsibilities  on   cloud
                  management;
                            (iii)  conduct of day-to-day operational management functions;
                      (iv)  management and oversight by the financial institution of cloud
                      service providers;
                   (v)   quality of risk management and internal control functions; and
                      (vi)  strength of in-house competency and experience;
             (b)  the availability of independent, internationally recognised certifications of
                the cloud service providers, at a minimum, in the following areas:
                         (i)   information    security   management   framework,    including
                     cryptographic modules such as used for encryption and decryption
                        of user data; and
                           (ii)   cloud-specific  security  controls  for protection  of customer and
                     counterparty   or   proprietary   information   including  payment
                      transaction data in use, in storage and in transit; and
              (c)  the  degree  to which  the  selected  cloud  configuration  adequately
               addresses the following attributes:
                         (i)   geographical redundancy;
                           (ii)   high availability;

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   21 of 50

                            (iii)   scalability;
                      (iv)   portability;
                   (v)   interoperability; and
                      (vi)  strong recovery and resumption capability including appropriate
                       alternate Internet path to protect against potential Internet faults.

S  10.52 A  financial  institution  shall  consider  the need  for a  third  party  pre-
           implementation review on cloud implementation that also covers the areas set
           out in paragraph 10.51.

S  10.53 A financial institution must implement appropriate safeguards on customer and
           counterparty information and proprietary data when using cloud services to
            protect  against unauthorised  disclosure and access.  This  shall  include
            retaining ownership, control and management of all data pertaining to customer
          and counterparty information, proprietary data and services hosted on the
            cloud, including the relevant cryptographic keys management.

   Access Control

S  10.54  A financial institution must implement an appropriate access controls policy for
            the  identification, authentication and authorisation of users (internal and
            external users such as third party service providers). This must address both
              logical and physical technology access controls which are commensurate with
            the level of risk of unauthorised access to its technology systems.

G  10.55  In observing paragraph 10.54, a financial institution should consider the
            following principles in its access control policy:
             (a)  adopt a “deny  all” access control policy for users by default unless
                    explicitly authorised;
             (b)  employ “least privilege” access rights or on a ‘need-to-have’ basis where
                only the minimum sufficient permissions are granted to legitimate users
                  to perform their roles;
              (c)  employ time-bound access rights which restrict access to a specific period
                 including access rights granted to service providers;
             (d)  employ segregation of incompatible functions where no single person is
                responsible  for an  entire operation  that may provide the  ability  to
                independently modify, circumvent, and disable system security features.
                This may include a combination of functions such as:
                         (i)   system development and technology operations;
                           (ii)   security administration and system administration; and
                            (iii)  network operation and network security;
             (e)  employ dual control functions which require two or more persons to
               execute an activity;
                 (f)   adopt stronger authentication for critical activities including for remote
                access;
             (g)   limit and control the use of the same user ID for multiple concurrent
                sessions;
             (h)   limit and control the sharing of user ID and passwords across multiple
                 users; and


     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   22 of 50

                  (i)   control the use of generic user ID naming conventions in favour of more
                personally identifiable IDs.

S  10.56  A financial institution must employ robust authentication processes to ensure
            the authenticity of identities in use. Authentication mechanisms shall be
          commensurate with the criticality of the functions and adopt at least one or
          more of these three basic authentication factors, namely, something the user
          knows (e.g. password, PIN), something the user possesses (e.g. smart card,
             security device) and something the user is (e.g. biometric characteristics, such
          as a fingerprint or retinal pattern).

S  10.57  A financial institution shall periodically review and adapt its password practices
             to enhance resilience against evolving attacks. This includes the effective and
           secure generation of passwords. There must be appropriate controls in place
             to check the strength of the passwords created.

G  10.58  Authentication methods that depend on more than one factor typically are
          more difficult to compromise than a single factor system. In view of this,
             financial  institutions are encouraged  to  properly design and implement
             (especially in high-risk or ‘single sign-on’ systems) multi-factor authentication
          (MFA) that are more reliable and provide stronger fraud deterrents.

G  10.59  A financial institution is encouraged to adopt dedicated user domains for
            selected critical functions, separate from the broader enterprise-wide user
            authentication system.

S  10.60  A financial institution must establish a user access matrix to outline access
              rights, user roles or profiles, and the authorising and approving authorities. The
           access matrix must be periodically reviewed and updated.

S  10.61  A financial institution must ensure—
             (a)  access controls to enterprise-wide systems are effectively managed and
                monitored; and
             (b)  user activities in critical systems are logged for audit and investigations.
                   Activity logs must be maintained for at least three years and regularly
               reviewed in a timely manner.

S  10.62   In fulfilling the requirement under paragraph 10.61, large financial institutions
           are required to—
             (a)  deploy an identity access management system to effectively manage and
                monitor user access to enterprise-wide systems; and
             (b)  deploy automated audit tools to flag any anomalies.

    Patch and End-of-Life System Management

S  10.63  A financial institution must ensure that critical systems are not running on
           outdated systems with known security vulnerabilities or end-of-life (EOL)
           technology systems. In this regard, a financial institution must clearly assign
             responsibilities to identified functions:


     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   23 of 50

             (a)  to continuously monitor and implement latest patch releases in a timely
              manner; and
             (b)  identify critical technology systems that are approaching EOL for further
                remedial action.

S  10.64  A large financial institution must establish dedicated resources to perform the
            functions under paragraph 10.63.

S  10.65  A financial institution must establish a patch and EOL management framework
           which addresses among others the following requirements:
             (a)  identification and risk assessment of all technology assets for potential
                   vulnerabilities arising from undeployed patches or EOL systems;
             (b)  conduct of compatibility testing for critical patches;
              (c)  specification of turnaround time for deploying patches according to the
                 severity of the patches; and
             (d)  adherence to the workflow for end-to-end patch deployment processes
                 including approval, monitoring and tracking of activities.

    Security of Digital Services

S  10.66  A financial institution must implement robust technology security controls in
            providing digital services which assure the following:
             (a)  confidentiality and integrity of customer and counterparty information and
                 transactions;
             (b)  reliability of services delivered via channels and devices with minimum
                 disruption to services;
              (c)  proper  authentication  of  users  or  devices  and  authorisation  of
                 transactions;
             (d)  sufficient audit trail and monitoring of anomalous transactions;
             (e)  ability to identify and revert to the recovery point prior to incident or service
                  disruption; and
                 (f)  strong physical control and logical control measures.

S  10.67  A financial institution must implement controls to authenticate and monitor all
             financial transactions. These controls, at a minimum, must be effective in
             mitigating  man-in-the-middle  attacks,  transaction  fraud,  phishing  and
          compromise of application systems and information.

S  10.68  A financial  institution must implement additional controls to authenticate
           devices and users, authorise transactions and support non-repudiation and
             accountability for high-risk transactions or transactions above RM10,000.
          These measures must include, at a minimum, the following:
             (a)  ensure transactions are performed over secured channels such as the
                   latest version of Transport Layer Security (TLS);
             (b)  both client and host application systems must encrypt all confidential
                 information prior to transmission over the network;
              (c)  adopt MFA for transactions;
             (d)   if OTP is used as a second factor, it must be dynamic and time-bound;
             (e)  request users to verify details of the transaction prior to execution;
                 (f)  ensure secure user and session handling management;

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   24 of 50

             (g) be able  to capture the  location  of  origin and  destination  of each
                 transaction;
             (h)  implement strong mutual authentication between the users’ end-point
               devices and financial institutions’ servers, such as the use of the latest
                version of Extended Validation SSL certificate (EV SSL); and
                   (i)  provide timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of
                the nature of the transaction.

S  10.69  A financial institution must ensure the MFA solution used to authenticate
             financial transactions are adequately secure, which includes the following:
             (a)  binding of the MFA solution to the customer’s account;
             (b)  activation of MFA must be subject to verification by the financial institution;
              and
              (c)  timely notification to customers of any activation of and changes to the
           MFA solution via the customers’ verified communication channel.

G  10.70  A financial institution should deploy MFA technology and channels that are
          more secure than unencrypted short messaging service (SMS).

S  10.71  A financial institution shall deploy MFA solutions with stronger security controls
              for open third party fund transfer and open payment transactions with a value
             of RM10,000 and above.

S  10.72  Such stronger MFA solutions shall adhere to the following requirements:
             (a)  payer/sender must be made aware and prompted to confirm details of the
                   identified beneficiary and amount of the transaction;
             (b)  authentication code must be  initiated and generated  locally by the
               payer/sender using MFA;
              (c)  authentication code generated by payer/sender must be specific to the
                confirmed identified beneficiary and amount;
             (d)  secure  underlying  technology must be  established  to  ensure  the
                 authentication code accepted by the financial institution corresponds to
                the confirmed transaction details; and
             (e)  notification must be provided to the payer/sender of the transaction.

S  10.73  Where a financial institution deploys OTP as part of its stronger MFA solutions,
            the following features must be implemented:
             (a)  binding of the transaction details to the OTP generated by the device (e.g.
                 beneficiary account number, amount of transaction);
             (b)  generation of the OTP from the customer’s device and not from the bank’s
                 server; and
              (c)  requiring the customer to physically enter the generated OTP into the
                  application.

S  10.74  For financial transactions below RM10,000, a financial institution may decide
          on  proportionate  controls and  authentication methods  for  transactions
          assessed by the financial institution to be of low risk. In undertaking the
           assessment, the financial institution must establish a set of criteria or factors
             that reflect the nature, size and characteristics of a financial transaction. Such
               criteria or factors must be consistent with the financial institution’s risk appetite

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   25 of 50

          and tolerance. The financial  institution must periodically review the  risk
          assessment criteria to ensure its continued relevance, having regard to the
              latest developments in cybersecurity risks and authentication technologies as
             well as fraud trends and incidents.

S  10.75  Where a financial institution decides not to adopt MFA for financial transactions
             that are assessed to be of low risk, the financial institution must nevertheless
           implement adequate safeguards for such transactions which shall include at a
         minimum the following measures:
             (a)  set appropriate limits on a per-transaction basis, and on a cumulative
                 basis;
             (b)  provide a convenient means for customers to reduce the limits described
                   in paragraph (a) or to opt for MFA;
              (c)  provide a convenient means for its customers to temporarily suspend their
               account in the event of suspected fraud; and
             (d)  provide its customers with adequate notice of the safeguards set out in
               sub-paragraphs (a) to (c).

S  10.76  A financial institution must ensure sufficient and relevant digital service logs
           are retained for investigations and forensic purposes for at least three years.

S  10.77  A financial institution must ensure that critical online payments and banking17
            services have high availability with reasonable response time to customer
             actions.

S  10.78  A financial institution must ensure that the use of more advanced technology
             to authenticate and deliver digital services such as biometrics, tokenisation
          and  contactless communication18 comply  with  internationally recognised
           standards where available. The technology must be resilient against cyber
             threats19 including malware, phishing or data leakage.

S  10.79  A financial institution must undertake a comprehensive risk assessment of the
          advanced technologies and the algorithms deployed in  its digital services.
            Algorithms must be regularly reviewed and validated to ensure they remain
            appropriate and accurate. Where third party software is used, a financial
              institution may rely on relevant independent reports provided such reliance is
            consistent with the financial institution’s risk appetite and tolerance, and the
            nature of digital services provided by the financial institution which leverage on
            the technologies and algorithms.

S  10.80  A financial institution must ensure authentication processes using biometric
           technology are secure, highly resistant to spoofing and have a minimal false
           acceptance rate to ensure confidentiality, integrity and non-repudiation of
             transactions.

      17 For example, Internet and mobile banking services.
      18 Such as Quick Response (QR) code, Bar Code, Near Field Communication (NFC), Radio Frequency
      Identification (RFID), Wearables.
      19 For example, in respect of QR payments, financial institutions shall implement safeguards within its
     respective mobile applications to detect and mitigate risks relating to QR code that may contain malware
     or links to phishing websites.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   26 of 50


S  10.81  A financial institution must perform continuous surveillance to assess the
             vulnerability of the operating system and the relevant technology platform used
              for its digital delivery channels to security breaches and implement appropriate
           corresponding  safeguards.  At a minimum, a  financial  institution must
           implement  sufficient  logical and  physical  safeguards  for  the  following
           channels:
             (a)  self-service terminal (SST);
             (b)  non-cash SST;
              (c)  Internet banking; and
             (d)  mobile application and devices.
             In view  of  the  evolving  threat landscape,  these safeguards must be
            continuously reviewed and updated to protect against fraud and to secure the
              confidentiality and integrity of customer and counterparty information and
             transactions.

G  10.82   In fulfilling paragraph 10.81, a financial institution should adopt the controls
            specified  in the following Appendices  for the respective  digital  delivery
            channel:
             (a) Appendix 2: Control Measures on Self-Service Terminals (SST);
             (b) Appendix 3: Control Measures on Internet Banking; and
              (c) Appendix 4: Control Measures on Mobile Application and Devices.

   11     Cybersecurity Management

   Cyber Risk Management

S  11.1   A financial institution must ensure that there is an enterprise-wide focus on
             effective cyber risk management to reflect the collective responsibility of
           business and technology lines for managing cyber risks.

S  11.2  A  financial  institution must develop a CRF which  clearly articulates the
              institution’s  governance  for managing  cyber  risks,  its  cyber  resilience
            objectives and its risk tolerance, with due regard to the evolving cyber threat
           environment. Objectives  of  the CRF  shall  include ensuring  operational
             resilience against extreme but plausible cyber-attacks. The framework must be
           able to support the effective identification, protection, detection, response, and
           recovery (IPDRR) of systems and data hosted on-premise or by third party
            service providers from internal and external cyber-attacks.

S  11.3   The CRF must consist of, at a minimum, the following elements:
             (a)  development of an institutional understanding of the overall cyber risk
                context in relation to the financial institution’s business and operations, its
               exposure to cyber risks and current cybersecurity posture;
             (b)  identification,  classification  and   prioritisation  of   critical  systems,
                 information, assets and  interconnectivity  (with  internal and external
                  parties) to obtain a complete and accurate view of the financial institution’s
                 information assets, critical systems, interdependencies and cyber risk
                    profile;


     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   27 of 50

              (c)  identification of cybersecurity threats and countermeasures including
              measures to contain reputational damage that can undermine confidence
                   in the financial institution;
             (d)  layered  (defense-in-depth)  security  controls  to  protect   its  data,
                  infrastructure and assets against evolving threats;
             (e)  timely  detection   of  cybersecurity   incidents  through  continuous
                 surveillance and monitoring;
                 (f)  detailed incident handling policies and procedures and a crisis response
             management playbook to support the swift recovery from cyber-incidents
              and contain any damage resulting from a cybersecurity breach; and
             (g)  policies and procedures for timely and secure information sharing and
                 collaboration with other financial institutions and participants in financial
               market infrastructure to strengthen cyber resilience.

S  11.4    In addition to the requirements in paragraph 11.3, a large financial institution
               is required to—
             (a)  implement a centralised automated  tracking system  to manage  its
                technology asset inventory; and
             (b)  establish a dedicated in-house cyber  risk management  function  to
             manage  cyber  risks  or  emerging  cyber  threats. The  cyber  risk
             management function shall be responsible for the following:
                         (i)   perform detailed analysis on cyber threats, provide risk assessments
                  on potential cyber-attacks and ensure timely review and escalation
                        of all high-risk cyber threats to senior management and the board;
                  and
                           (ii)   proactively identify potential vulnerabilities including those arising
                    from infrastructure hosted with third party service providers through
                     the simulation of sophisticated “Red Team” attacks on its current
                       security controls.

    Cybersecurity Operations

S  11.5  A financial institution must establish clear responsibilities for cybersecurity
            operations which shall include implementing appropriate mitigating measures
              in the financial institution’s conduct of business that correspond to the following
          phases of the cyber-attack lifecycle:
             (a)  reconnaissance;
             (b)  weaponisation;
              (c)  delivery;
             (d)  exploitation;
             (e)  installation;
                 (f)  command and control; and
             (g)  exfiltration.

G  11.6   Where relevant, a financial institution should adopt the control measures on
            cybersecurity as specified in Appendix 5 to enhance its resilience to cyber-
             attacks.

S  11.7  A financial institution must deploy effective tools to support the continuous and
            proactive monitoring and  timely detection  of anomalous  activities  in  its

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   28 of 50

           technology infrastructure. The scope of monitoring must cover  all  critical
           systems including the supporting infrastructure.

S  11.8  A  financial  institution  must  ensure  that   its  cybersecurity  operations
            continuously prevent and detect any potential compromise of  its security
            controls or weakening of its security posture. For large financial institutions,
              this must include performing a quarterly vulnerability assessment of external
          and internal network components that support all critical systems.

S  11.9  A financial institution must conduct annual intelligence-led penetration tests on
                its internal and external network infrastructure as well as critical systems
            including web, mobile and all external-facing applications. The penetration
             testing shall reflect extreme but plausible cyber-attack scenarios based on
           emerging and evolving threat scenarios. A financial institution must engage
             suitably accredited penetration testers and service providers to perform this
             function.

S  11.10   In addition to the requirement in paragraph 11.9, a large financial institution
          must undertake independent compromise assessments on the technology
             infrastructure of its critical systems at least annually and ensure the results of
          such assessments are escalated to senior management and the board in a
             timely manner.

S  11.11  A financial institution must establish standard operating procedures (SOP) for
             vulnerability assessment and penetration testing (VAPT) activities. The SOP
          must outline the relevant control measures including ensuring the external
            penetration testers are accompanied on-premises at all times, validating the
           event logs and ensuring data purging.

S  11.12  A financial institution must ensure the outcome of the penetration testing
            exercise is properly documented and escalated in a timely manner to senior
         management to identify and monitor the implementation of relevant remedial
             actions.

    Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)

S  11.13  A financial institution must ensure its technology systems and infrastructure,
            including  critical systems outsourced to or hosted by third party service
            providers, are adequately protected against  all types  of DDoS attacks
             (including volumetric, protocol and application layer attacks) through the
             following measures:
             (a)  subscribing to DDoS mitigation services, which include automatic ‘clean
                  pipe’ services to filter and divert any potential malicious traffic away from
                the network bandwidth;
             (b)  regularly assessing the capability of the provider to expand network
               bandwidth on-demand including upstream provider capability, adequacy
                  of the provider’s incident response plan and its responsiveness to an
                  attack; and
              (c)  implementing mechanisms to mitigate against Domain Name Server
              (DNS) based layer attacks.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   29 of 50

    Data Loss Prevention (DLP)

S  11.14  A financial institution must establish a clear DLP strategy and processes in
            order to ensure that proprietary and customer and counterparty information is
              identified, classified and secured. At a minimum, a financial institution must-
             (a)  ensure that data owners are accountable and responsible for identifying
              and appropriately classifying data;
             (b)  undertake a data discovery process prior to the development of a data
                   classification scheme and data inventory; and
              (c)  ensure that data accessible by third parties  is clearly identified and
                  policies must be implemented to safeguard and control third party access.
                This includes adequate contractual agreements to protect the interests of
                the financial institution and its customers.

S  11.15  A financial institution must design internal control procedures and implement
            appropriate technology in all applications and access points to enforce DLP
             policies and trigger any policy violations. The technology deployed must cover
            the following:
             (a)  data in-use – data being processed by IT resources;
             (b)  data in-motion – data being transmitted on the network; and
              (c)  data at-rest – data stored in storage mediums such as servers, backup
              media and databases.

S  11.16  A financial institution must implement appropriate policies for the removal of
           data on technology equipment, mobile devices or storage media to prevent
           unauthorised access to data.

    Security Operations Centre (SOC)

S  11.17  A financial institution must ensure its SOC, whether managed in-house or by
              third  party  service  providers,  has  adequate  capabilities  for  proactive
            monitoring of its technology security posture. This shall enable the financial
              institution  to detect anomalous user or network  activities,  flag potential
           breaches and  establish  the  appropriate response supported by  skilled
           resources based on the level of complexity of the alerts. The outcome of the
        SOC  activities  shall also inform the  financial  institution’s reviews  of  its
            cybersecurity posture and strategy.

S  11.18  The SOC must be able to perform the following functions:
             (a)  log collection and the implementation of an event correlation engine with
                parameter-driven use cases such as Security Information and Event
             Management (SIEM);
             (b)  incident coordination and response;
              (c)  vulnerability management;
             (d)  threat hunting;
             (e)  remediation functions including the ability to perform forensic artifact
                 handling, malware and implant analysis; and
                 (f)  provision of situational awareness to detect adversaries and threats
                 including threat intelligence analysis and operations, and monitoring
                  indicators of compromise (IOC). This includes advanced behavioural

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   30 of 50

                 analysis to detect signature-less and file-less malware and to identify
               anomalies that may pose security threats including at endpoints and
               network layers.

S  11.19  A financial institution must ensure that the SOC provides a regular threat
          assessment report, which shall include, at a minimum, the following:
             (a)  trends and statistics of cyber events and incidents categorised by type of
                 attacks, target and source IP addresses, location of data centres and
                      criticality of applications; and
             (b)  intelligence  on  emerging  and  potential  threats  including  tactics,
                techniques and procedures (TTP).
           For large financial institutions, such reports shall be provided on a monthly
            basis.

S  11.20  A financial institution must subscribe to reputable threat intelligence services
             to identify emerging cyber threats, uncover new cyber-attack techniques and
           support the implementation of countermeasures.

S  11.21 A financial institution must ensure the following:
             (a)  the SOC is located in a physically secure environment with proper access
                  controls;
             (b)  the SOC operates on a 24x7 basis with disaster recovery capability to
               ensure continuous availability; and
              (c)  the SOC has a holistic and end-to-end view of the financial institution’s
                  infrastructure including internal and external facing perimeters.

   Cyber Response and Recovery

S  11.22  A financial institution must establish comprehensive cyber crisis management
             policies  and  procedures  that  incorporate  cyber-attack  scenarios  and
           responses in the organisation’s overall crisis management plan, escalation
           processes, business continuity and disaster recovery planning. This includes
           developing a clear communication plan for engaging shareholders, regulatory
             authorities, customers and employees in the event of a cyber-incident.

S  11.23  A financial institution must establish and implement a comprehensive Cyber
            Incident Response Plan (CIRP). The CIRP must address the following:
             (a) Preparedness
                 Establish a clear governance process, reporting structure and roles and
                  responsibilities of the Cyber Emergency Response Team (CERT) as well
              as invocation and escalation procedures in the event of an incident;
             (b)  Detection and analysis
              Ensure  effective and expedient processes  for  identifying  points  of
               compromise, assessing the extent of damage and preserving sufficient
               evidence for forensics purposes;
              (c)  Containment, eradication and recovery
                   Identify and implement remedial actions to prevent or minimise damage
                  to the financial institution, remove the known threats and resume business
                    activities; and


     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   31 of 50

             (d)  Post-incident activity
              Conduct post-incident review incorporating lessons learned and develop
                long-term risk mitigations.

S  11.24  A  financial  institution must ensure  that  relevant CERT members  are
           conversant with the incident response plan and handling procedures, and
           remain contactable at all times. A key contact person or an alternate must be
           appointed to liaise with the Bank during an incident.

S  11.25  A financial institution must conduct an annual cyber drill exercise to test the
            effectiveness of  its CIRP, based on various current and emerging threat
           scenarios (e.g. social engineering), with the involvement of key stakeholders
            including members of the board, senior management and relevant third party
            service providers. The test scenarios must include scenarios designed to test:
             (a)  the effectiveness  of  escalation, communication and decision-making
              processes that correspond to different impact levels of a cyber-incident;
             and
             (b)  the readiness and effectiveness of CERT and relevant third party service
                providers in supporting the recovery process.

S  11.26  A financial institution must immediately notify the Bank of any cyber-incidents
             affecting the institution. Upon completion of the investigation, the financial
              institution is also required to submit a report on the incident through ORION20.

G  11.27  Financial institutions are strongly encouraged to collaborate and cooperate
            closely with relevant stakeholders and competent authorities in combating
           cyber threats and sharing threat intelligence and mitigation measures.

   12    Technology Audit

S  12.1   A financial institution must ensure that the scope, frequency and intensity of
           technology audits are commensurate with the complexity, sophistication and
                criticality of technology systems and applications.

S  12.2   The internal audit function must be adequately resourced with relevant
           technology  audit competencies and sound knowledge  of  the  financial
              institution’s technology processes and operations.

S  12.3   A financial institution must ensure  its internal technology audit  staff are
             professionally  certified and  adequately  conversant  with  the developing
             sophistication of the financial institution’s technology systems and delivery
           channels.

S  12.4    In addition to paragraph 12.2, a large financial institution must establish a
           dedicated internal technology audit function that has specialised technology
             audit competencies to undertake technology audits.




      20 Operational Risk Integrated Online Network

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   32 of 50

S  12.5   A financial institution must establish a technology audit plan that provides
            appropriate coverage  of  critical technology services,  third party service
            providers,  material  external system  interfaces,  delayed  or  prematurely
            terminated critical technology projects and post-implementation review of new
            or material enhancements of technology services.

G  12.6   The internal audit function (in the case of paragraph 12.2) and the dedicated
             internal technology audit function (in the case of paragraph 12.4) may be
             enlisted to provide advice on compliance with and adequacy of control
           processes during the planning and development phases  of new major
            products, systems or technology operations. In such cases, the technology
            auditors participating in this capacity should carefully consider whether such
          an advisory or consulting role would materially impair their independence or
              objectivity in performing post-implementation reviews of the products, systems
          and operations concerned.

   13     Internal Awareness and Training

S  13.1   A financial institution must provide adequate and regular technology and
            cybersecurity awareness education for all staff in undertaking their respective
             roles, and measure  the  effectiveness  of  its education and awareness
          programmes. This cybersecurity awareness education must be conducted at
             least annually by the financial institution and must reflect the current cyber
             threat landscape.

S  13.2   A financial institution must provide adequate and continuous training for staff
            involved in technology operations, cybersecurity and risk management in order
             to ensure that the staff are competent to effectively perform their roles and
              responsibilities.

S  13.3    In fulfilling the requirements under paragraph 13.2, a large financial institution
             shall ensure the staff working on day-to-day IT operations such as IT security,
             project management and cloud operations are also suitably certified.

S  13.4   A financial institution must provide its board members with regular training and
            information on technology developments to enable the board to effectively
           discharge its oversight role.





     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   33 of 50

   PART C   REGULATORY PROCESS

   14     Notification for Technology-Related Applications

S  14.1   A financial institution must notify the Bank in accordance with the requirements
              in paragraphs 14.2 to 14.7 prior to conducting e-banking, Internet insurance
          and Internet takaful services, including introducing new technology relating to
            e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet takaful21.

S  14.2   A financial institution offering e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet takaful
            services  for the  first time must submit the following information  in the
              notification to the Bank:
             (a)  risks identified and strategies to manage such risks. This includes specific
                  accountabilities, policies and controls to address risks;
             (b)  security arrangements and controls;
              (c)  significant terms and conditions for e-banking, Internet insurance and
                  Internet takaful services;
             (d)  client charter on e-banking,  Internet insurance and  Internet  takaful
                 services;
             (e)  privacy policy statement; and
                 (f)  any outsourcing or website link arrangements, or strategic alliances or
                partnerships with third parties that have been finalised.

S  14.3    In introducing any enhancement to existing e-banking, Internet insurance and
             Internet takaful services, the financial institution is required to follow the
              notification process based on whether the enhancement is explicitly listed in
           Appendix 6 (Positive List for Enhancement to Electronic Banking, Internet
           Insurance and Internet Takaful Services). The list may be updated as and
         when there are changes to the risk profile and risk management of the
           technology landscape.

S  14.4   For any enhancements listed in Appendix 6, the financial institution must
           submit the notification together with the following information:
             (a)  description of the enhancements to the existing technologies; and
             (b)  risk assessment of the proposed enhancements, including the impact and
              measures to mitigate identified risks.

S  14.5   For the introduction of new services, and any enhancements to existing
            services not listed in Appendix 6, the financial  institution  is required to
           undertake the following measures prior to notifying the Bank:
             (a) engage an independent external party to provide assurance that the
                   financial institution has addressed the technology risks and security

      21 “e-banking” For the purpose means of this the Part, provision of banking products and services through electronic channels.
     E-banking includes banking via the Internet, phone, automated teller machines (ATM), and any other
     electronic channel.
     “Internet insurance” means the use of the Internet as a channel to transact insurance business with
     customers or as a platform for transmission of customers’ information; and
     “Internet takaful” means the use of the Internet as a channel to transact takaful business with customers
     or as a platform for transmission of customers’ information.

     Issued on: 19 June 2020
    Risk Management in Technology                                   34 of 50

                 controls associated with the e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet
                  takaful services or any material enhancement to the existing e-banking,
                  Internet insurance and  Internet  takaful  services. The format  of the
               assurance shall be as set out in Appendix 7; and
             (b)  provide a confirmation by the CISO, senior management officer or the
               chairman of the board or designated board-level committee stipulated in
               paragraph 8.4 of the financial institution’s readiness to provide e-banking,
                  Internet insurance and Internet takaful services or implement any material
              enhancement to the e-banking, Internet insurance and Internet takaful
                 services. The format of the confirmation shall be as set out in Appendix 8.
S  14.6   A  financial  institution must ensure  that the independent external  party
            providing the assurance is competent and has a good track record. The
           assurance shall address the matters covered in, and comply with, Appendix 9.

G  14.7   For any enhancements that do not materially alter the prior assessments and
            representations made by a financial institution to the Bank, a notification under
           paragraph 14.4 and Appendix 6 is not required. However, a financial institution
           should have the relevant information readily available upon request by the
          Bank to facilitate the ongoing supervisory process.

G  14.8   A financial institution may offer the services or implement any enhancement to
            the services immediately upon submission of the notification under paragraph
           14.1 and compliance with the requirements in paragraphs 14.2 to 14.6.

   15    Assessment and Gap Analysis

S  15.1   A financial institution must perform a gap analysis of existing practices in
          managing technology risk against the requirements in this policy document
          and highlight key implementation gaps. The financial institution must develop
          an action plan with a clear timeline and key milestones to address the gaps
              identified particularly for gaps that extend beyond the effective date of this
             policy document. The gap analysis and action plan must be submitted to the
          Bank no later than 18 October 2019.

S  15.2   For the purpose of paragraph 8.12, a financial institution shall submit together
            with the gap analysis and action plan its self-assessment on whether it is a
            large financial institution.

S  15.3   The self-assessment, gap analysis and action plan in paragraphs 15.1 and
           15.2 must be submitted to Jabatan Penyeliaan Konglomerat Kewangan,
           Jabatan Penyeliaan Perbankan, Jabatan Penyeliaan Insurans dan Takaful or
           Jabatan Pemantauan Pembayaran, as the case may be.





     Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   35 of 50

Appendix 1 Storage and Transportation of Sensitive Data in Removable Media

Financial institutions should ensure adequate controls and measures are implemented
for the storage and transportation of sensitive data in removable media, including:
1.   Deploying the latest industry-tested and accepted encryption techniques;
2.   Implementing authorised access  control  to  sensitive data  (e.g. password
      protection, user access matrix);
3.    Prohibiting unauthorised copying and reading from the media;
4.   Should there be a need to transport the removable media to a different physical
      location, financial institutions must—
      (a)  strengthen the chain of custody process for media management which
           includes:
                (i)   the media must not be under single custody at any point of time;
                 (ii)   the media must always be within sight of the designated custodians;
             and
                 (iii)  the media must be  delivered  to  its  target  destination  without
              unscheduled stops or detours;
      (b)  use secure and official vehicle for transportation;
      (c)  use strong and tamper-proof containers for storing the media with high-
           security lock (e.g. dual key and combination lock); and
      (d)  implement location tracking functionality for each media container; and
5.   Ensuring  third  party  service  providers comply  with  the  requirements  in
     paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Appendix, in the event third party services are required
      in undertaking the storage management or transportation process of sensitive
     data.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   36 of 50

Appendix 2 Control Measures on Self-service Terminals (SSTs)

Cash SST

Cash SSTs are computer  terminals provided by banking  institutions such as
Automated Teller Machine, Cash Deposit Machine and Cash Recycler Machine that
provide cash transactions such as cash withdrawals and deposits including in foreign
currencies.
Financial institutions should ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the Cash SST, which includes:
1.   Enforcing full hard disk encryption;
2.   Retaining cards or block access to Cash SST service when the following are
     detected:
      (a)  exceed maximum PIN tries;
      (b)   invalid card authentication value;
      (c)  cash SST card unable to eject;
      (d)   “deactivated” card status;
      (e)   inactive account status such as “Dormant” or “Deceased”; and
       (f)   cards tagged as “Lost” or “Stolen”;
3.   Ensuring Cash SST operating system is running on a secure version operating
    system with continued developer or vendor support for security patches to fix any
     operating system security and vulnerabilities;
4.   Deploying Anti-virus (AV) solution for Cash SST and ensure timely update of
     signatures. Ensure virus scanning on all Cash SSTs is performed periodically;
5.   Implementing a centralised management system to monitor and  alert any
     unauthorised activities on Cash SST such as unauthorised shutting-down of OS
     or deactivation of the white-listing programme;
6.   Ensuring effective control over the Cash SST lock and key by using a unique and
     non-duplicable key to open the Cash SST PC Core compartment as well as
     ensure proper safekeeping and custody of the key;
7.    Installing alarm system with triggering mechanism connected to a centralised
      alert system to detect and alert bank’s staff of any unauthorised opening or
     tampering of the physical component of the Cash SST, particularly the access to
     the Cash SST PC Core;
8.   Securing physically the Cash SST PC Core by enclosing the CPU in a locked
     case;
9.   Enforcing  firewall and  Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)  at the  financial
      institution’s network to filter communication between the host server and the
    Cash SST;
10.  Enforcing pairing authentication for key Cash SST components, particularly
    between cash dispenser and Cash SST controller;
11.  Enforcing Basic Input Output System (BIOS) lock-down which includes:



Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   37 of 50

      (a)  enabling unique password protection for accessing BIOS. The password
          should be held by financial institutions under strict control;
      (b)   disabling external input device and port such as CD-ROM, floppy disk and
       USB port. The Cash SST operating system can only be booted from the
            internal hard disk; and
      (c)   disabling automatic BIOS update;
12.  Ensuring proper configuration and hardening of the OS and application system,
     which includes:
      (a)  blocking any wireless network connection such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi;
      (b)   disabling Microsoft default program system (such as Notepad, Internet
          browser, Windows shortcut,  file download,  file sharing and command
          prompt);
      (c)   disabling unnecessary services in the operating system such as the auto-
          play features;
      (d)  concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;
      (e)  enabling cache auto-deletion; and
       (f)   disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions;
13.  Enforcing secure system parameter setting, which includes:
      (a)  changing defaults password and other system security parameters setting
           of the Cash SST;
      (b)  using a unique system administrator password for all Cash SSTs; and
      (c)  using lowest-level privileges for programmes and users system access;
14.  Performing  scanning  and  removing  any  known  malware  such  as
     Backdoor.Padpin and Backdoor.Ploutus;
15.  Enforcing and monitor Cash SST end-point protection such as installing white-
      listing programmes. The end-point protection programme, at a minimum, shall
     ensure only authorised Cash SST system processes and libraries are installed
    and executed;
16.  Enforcing strict control procedures over installation and maintenance of Cash
    SST OS and application systems, which includes:
      (a)  ensuring only authorised personnel have access to gold disk copy (master
         copy of Cash SST installation software);
      (b)  ensuring the gold disk copy is scanned for virus/malware prior to installation
            into Cash SST; and
      (c)   enforcing dual control  for installation and maintenance of Cash SST
          software; and
17.  Installing closed-circuit cameras and transaction triggered cameras at strategic
     locations with adequate lighting in order to ensure high quality and clear closed-
      circuit television images of cardholder performing a transaction as well as any
     suspicious activities.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   38 of 50

Non-Cash SST

Non-cash SSTs are computer terminals such as desktops, laptops, tablets and cheque
deposit machines that provide non-cash transactions such as cheque deposits,
balance enquiries, fund transfers, utilities bill payments and insurance quotations.
Financial institutions should ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the self-service terminals, which includes:
1.   Enforcing the use of lock and key on the computer terminal’s central processing
      unit (CPU) at all times;
2.   Deploying closed-circuit television to monitor the usage of self-service terminals;
3.   Ensuring adequate control over network security of the self-service terminals to
     ensure that the kiosks are secured and segregated from the internal network;
4.   Disabling the use of all input devices (such as USB, CD and DVD), application
    system (such as Notepad, Microsoft Word, and Microsoft PowerPoint) and file
    download as well as command prompt on the kiosk;
5.   Disabling browser scripting, pop-ups, ActiveX, Windows shortcut;
6.   Concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;
7.   Enabling cache auto-deletion;
8.   Disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions; and
9.    Restricting use of Internet browser i.e. only to be used to access the financial
      institution’s internet website.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   39 of 50

Appendix 3 Control Measures on Internet Banking

1.  A  financial  institution  should  ensure  the adequacy  of  security  controls
     implemented for Internet banking, which include:
      (a)  Ensure Internet banking only runs on secured versions of web browsers
           that have continued developer support for security patches to  fix any
            vulnerabilities;
      (b)  Put in place additional authentication protocols to enable customers to
            identify the financial institution’s genuine website such as deploying image
           or word verification authentication or similar controls. The system should
           require the customer to acknowledge that the image or word is correct
          before the password box is displayed to the customer;
      (c)  Assign a customer to MFA solution binding to a single device;
      (d)  Require MFA when registering an account as a “favourite” beneficiary. A
            financial institution must also require MFA, for the first funds transfer to the
           favourite beneficiary;
      (e)  For new customers, the default transfer limit shall be set at a conservatively
         low level (such as RM5,000 per day). However, customers should be
          provided with the option to change the limit via secure channels (e.g. online
           with MFA or at branches); and
       (f)   Deploy an automated fraud detection system which has the capability to
         conduct heuristic behavioural analysis.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   40 of 50

Appendix 4 Control Measures on Mobile Application and Devices

1.  A financial institution should ensure digital payment, banking and insurance
     services involving sensitive customer and counterparty information offered via
     mobile devices are adequately secured. This includes the following:
      (a)  ensure mobile applications run only on the supported version of operating
         systems and enforce the application to only operate on a secure version of
          operating systems which have not been compromised, jailbroken or rooted
              i.e. the security patches are up-to-date;
      (b)  design the mobile application to operate in a secure and tamper-proof
         environment within the mobile devices. The mobile application shall be
           prohibited from storing customer and counterparty information used for
           authentication with the application server such as PIN and passwords.
          Authentication and verification of unique key and PIN shall be centralised
           at the host;
      (c)  undertake proper due  diligence processes  to ensure the  application
            distribution  platforms used  to  distribute  the  mobile  application  are
           reputable;
      (d)  ensure proper controls are in place to access, maintain and upload the
          mobile application on application distribution platforms;
      (e)   activation of the mobile application must be subject to authentication by the
            financial institution;
       (f)   ensure secure provisioning process of mobile application in the customer’s
          device is in place by binding the mobile application to the customer’s profile
         such as device ID and account number; and
      (g)  monitor the application distribution platforms to identify and address the
            distribution of fake applications in a timely manner.

2.    In addition to the guidance in paragraph 1, a financial institution should also
     ensure the following measures are applied specifically for applications running
    on mobile devices used by the  financial  institution, appointed agents or
     intermediaries  for  the purpose  of processing customer and  counterparty
     information:
      (a)  mobile device to be adequately hardened and secured;
      (b)  ensure the capability to automatically wipe data stored in the mobile devices
            in the event the device is reported stolen or missing;
      (c)   establish safeguards that ensure the security of customer and counterparty
          information (e.g. Primary Account Numbers (PAN), Card Verification Value
        Numbers (CVV), expiry dates and Personal Identification Numbers (PIN) of
         payment cards), including to mitigate risks of identity theft and fraud22;
      (d)  enforce masking of sensitive customer and counterparty information when
          displayed on mobile devices; and
      (e)   limit the storage of customer and counterparty information for soliciting
          insurance businesses in mobile devices to 30 days.





22 This includes risks associated with malwares that enable keystroke logging, PIN harvesting and other
  malicious forms of customer and counterparty information downloading.

Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   41 of 50

Appendix 5 Control Measures on Cybersecurity

1.   Conduct periodic review on the configuration and rules settings for all security
     devices. Use automated tools to review and monitor changes to configuration
    and rules settings.
2.   Update checklists on the latest security hardening of operating systems.
3.   Update security standards and protocols for web services encryption regularly.
     Disable support of weak ciphers and protocol in web-facing applications.
4.   Ensure technology networks are segregated into multiple zones according to
      threat profile. Each zone shall be adequately protected by various security
     devices including firewall and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS). This must
     include mobile and wireless networks as well.
5.   Ensure security controls  for server-to-server external network connections
     include the following:
      (a)   server-to-server authentication such as Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
            certificate or user ID and password;
      (b)  use of secure tunnels such as Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Virtual
           Private Network (VPN) IPSec; and
      (c)  deploying staging servers with adequate perimeter defences and protection
         such as firewall, IPS and antivirus.
6.   Ensure security controls for remote access to server include the following:
      (a)   restrict access to only hardened and locked down end-point devices;
      (b)  use secure tunnels such as TLS and VPN IPSec;
      (c)  deploy ‘gateway’ server with adequate perimeter defences and protection
         such as firewall, IPS and antivirus; and
      (d)  close relevant ports immediately upon expiry of remote access.
7.   Ensure overall network security controls are implemented including the following:
      (a)  dedicated firewalls at all segments. All external-facing firewalls must be
         deployed on High Availability (HA) configuration and “fail-close” mode
           activated. Deploy different brand name/model for two firewalls located in
         sequence within the same network path;
      (b)  IPS at  all  critical network segments with the capability to inspect and
          monitor encrypted network traffic;
      (c)  web and email filtering systems such as web-proxy, spam filter and anti-
          spoofing controls;
      (d)  end-point  protection  solution  to  detect and remove  security  threats
           including viruses and malicious software;
      (e)   solution to mitigate advanced persistent threats including zero-day and
          signatureless malware; and
       (f)   capture the full network packets to rebuild relevant network sessions to aid
           forensics in the event of incidents.
8.   Synchronise and protect the Network Time Protocol (NTP) server against
     tampering.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   42 of 50

Appendix 6 Positive List for Enhancements to electronic Banking, Internet
           Insurance and Internet Takaful Services
 Guiding Principles:
 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
 1.  Participation in payment   1. Enhance Transaction        1.  System
    gateways involving           Authorisation Code (TAC)       connectivity with
     Financial Process            delivery including             approved
    Exchange (FPX),            subscribing to a new TAC     schemes i.e.
    approved payment         gateway service provider.      PayNet.
    system operator and      2. Enhance the e-Banking     2.  Enhancement to
     registered business        system to support            add connectivity to
     (merchant acquiring         migration to Chip and PIN       third-party service
     business) with BNM.         cards.                         providers i.e.
 2.  Implementation of         3. Implement automated       MYEG, Financial
     technology platform          storing of privilege IDs.          Link, Rexit,
    approved by Securities    4. Enhancements to existing       Bestinet, PSPPA
    Commission e.g. Digital      login features of biometric     and Merimen.
     Investment                    security.                     3.  Changes on
    Management              5. Enhancement to existing        security and
 3.  Participation in               features of MFA method.       monitoring related
    approved schemes as     6. Enhancement to existing        tools that include
     follows:                      features of phone                      (i)  Firewalls;
        (i)  Tabung Haji;           banking technology.                   (ii) Intrusion
        (ii) Amanah Saham       7. Enhancement on login             Detection
        Nasional Berhad         authentication method on         Systems
        (ASNB);                 the existing Internet                 (IDS); and
        (iii) Skim Simpanan          platform.                                       (iii) Intrusion
        Pendidikan Nasional                                      Prevention
         (SSPN-i); and                                       Systems
       (iv) PayNet’s current                                               (IPS).
       and future products                                      4. Enhancements of
       and services, e.g.                             Open API
         Real-time Retail                                           integrations which
       Payments Platform                               does not involve
       (RPP) / DuitNow /                                      the transmission of
       DuitNow QR,                                                “confidential” or
      JomPAY and                                               “sensitive”
        Fasstap                                                  information.



Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   43 of 50

 Guiding Principles:
 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
 4.  Enable RENTAS and                                       5.  Enhancement to
    SWIFT payment                                    add connectivity
     transaction initiative on                                       with approved
     the Internet platform.                                           participants in the
 5.  Participation in existing                                       Financial
    approved e-channels                                   Technology
      e.g.:                                                     Regulatory
        (i)  Western Union;                                    Sandbox.
        (ii) Merchantrade;                                          6. Enhancement to
        (iii) Paypal;                                        add connectivity
       (iv) Inter Bank Giro                                           with online
         (IBG); and                                                    distribution
      (v) Inter Bank Fund                                     channel e.g.
         Transfer (IBFT).                                      telecommunication
 6.  Notification to participate                              company.
      in existing approved e-                                      7. Enhancement to
    money issuer.                                      add connectivity
 7.  Usage of motor                                              with third-party
     underwriting engine by                                      without material
      third-party for calculation                              change to the
     of motor premium.                                             existing approved
 8.  Enhancement to                                               platform.
     application form and                                        8. Leveraging
     underwriting question.                                  approved
 9.  Increase in transaction                                    website/mobile
      limits including default                                        application for e-
      limit for online/ATM.                                     banking or Internet
 10. Enhancement for the                                        insurance-related
     following services                                          services within
     including new add-on                                            financial group.
     services and features on
     the existing platform:
        (i)    Debit/credit card
            activation;
        (ii)   Reset password;




Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   44 of 50

 Guiding Principles:
 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
        (iii)  Block card
           including enabling
            debit/credit card
            for overseas
         usage;
       (iv)  Credit card PIN
         change via
           Internet banking;
      (v)   Credit card
           activation via
          SMS/online;
      (vi)  Maintenance of
           existing product
          features e.g. time
          deposit maturity
          tenor and rates;
       (vii)  Add-on features or
          services to the
           existing IVR
          system;
       (viii) Add-on features
        and services from
          the existing
           Internet platform to
          the existing mobile
           application;
       (ix)  Add-on features
        and functions to
           existing approved
          platform such as
          loan applications,
         opening of
          accounts,
          purchasing travel/
         motor insurance,
          withdrawal,



Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   45 of 50

 Guiding Principles:
 1. Does not result in any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry.
 2. Does not result in any material change in application architecture or network design.
 3. The simplified notification process only applies to enhancements that are explicitly
     listed below.

 Category 1:               Category 2:               Category 3:
 Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-on      Notification for Add-
 Services to Internet/Mobile  Security Features to       on Network/security
 Banking/Insurance/Takaful  Internet/Mobile             devices and systems
                            Banking/Insurance/Takaful  connectivity to
                                                  approved schemes
         surrender, claims
       and endorsement;
     (x)  Enrolment of
         new/existing
        customers onto the
         online platform;
     (xi)  Maintenance of
         customer’s
          credential via
          Internet platform;
       and
      (xii) Implementation of
         “chatbot” or “live
         chat” onto the
          existing approved
         platform to facilitate
        non-complex
           activity.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   46 of 50

Appendix 7 Risk Assessment Report

 Part A: Financial Institution

 Name of Financial Institution

 Mailing address

 Type of e-banking/Internet
 insurance and Internet takaful  New / Enhancement
 service

 Description of the e-banking,
 Internet insurance and
 Internet takaful service



 Key contact personnel

 Email address

 Phone number

 Part B: External Service Provider

 Name of company

 SSM registration number

 Mailing address

 Engagement period

 Key contact personnel

 Email address

 Phone number

 Part C: Detail of application

 Overview of the application     (Please keep the response below 200 words.
 i.e. business case, target        Additional information may be provided as
 segment of demographic and   supporting documents)
 end-user, etc.

 Describe the technology used   (Please keep the response below 200 words.
 to support the product, service   Additional information may be provided as
 or solution                     supporting documents)


Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   47 of 50


 Part D: Technology risk assessment

 Technology risk assessment
 shall provide assurance on
 the effectiveness of
 technology risk control and
 mitigation performed by the
 financial institutions in
 meeting expectations outlined
 in Part B of Appendix 9

 Part E: Quality assurance

 Overall recommendation





 Part F: Authorised signatory

 Signature





 Name

 Designation

 Date





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   48 of 50

Appendix 8 Format of Confirmation

Name of Financial Institution…. ………..……………………………………………………

As Chairman of the board of directors / designated board-level committee / CISO /
designated senior management officer * of [name of Financial Institution], I confirm
that –
  1.   e-banking / Internet insurance / Internet takaful * is consistent with the bank’s /
       insurer’s / takaful operator’s * strategic and business plans;
  2.   the board of directors  / senior management * understand and are ready to
     assume the roles and responsibilities stated in Bank Negara Malaysia’s policy
     document on Risk Management in Technology and the Guidelines on Internet
      Insurance (Consolidated) / Circular on Internet Takaful and are also apprised
       of  all relevant provisions in the FSA, IFSA and DFIA and other relevant
        legislation, guidelines and codes of conduct;
  3.    risk management process related to e-banking / Internet insurance / Internet
       takaful * is subject to appropriate oversight by the board of directors and senior
     management;
  4.   appropriate security measures to address e-banking  / Internet insurance  /
       Internet takaful * security concerns are in place;
  5.   customer support services and education related  to e-banking  / Internet
      insurance / Internet takaful * are in place;
  6.   performance monitoring of e-banking / Internet insurance  / Internet takaful *
      products, services, delivery channels and processes has been established;
  7.   e-banking / Internet insurance / Internet takaful * is included in the contingency
     and business resumption plans;
  8.   there are adequate resources to support the offering of e-banking  / Internet
      insurance / Internet takaful * business; and
  9.   the systems, procedures, security measures, etc. relevant to sound operations
       of e-banking / Internet insurance / Internet takaful * will constantly be reviewed
       to keep up with the latest changes.




Signature : ………………………………
Name : …………………………………..
Date : ………………………..…………..

* (delete whichever is not applicable)





Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   49 of 50

Appendix 9 Supervisory Expectations on External Party Assurance

Part A: Financial Institutions are required to provide an external assurance
1.   The assurance shall be conducted by an independent external service provider
    (ESP) engaged by the financial institution.
2.   The independent ESP must understand the proposed services, the data flows,
    system architecture, connectivity as well as its dependencies.
3.   The  independent ESP  shall  review  the comprehensiveness  of  the  risk
    assessment performed by the financial institution and validate the adequacy of
     the control measures implemented or to be implemented.
4.   The Risk Assessment Report (as per Part D in Appendix 7) shall state among
     others, the scope of review, risk assessment methodology, summary of findings
    and remedial actions (if any).
5.   The Risk Assessment Report shall confirm there is no exception noted based on
     the prescribed risk areas (Negative attestation).
6.   The financial institution shall provide the Risk Assessment Report accompanied
    by the relevant documents.

Part B: Minimum controls to be assessed by the independent External Service
Provider, where applicable
1.   The independent ESP assessment of security requirements shall include the
     following key areas:
      (a)  access control;
      (b)  physical and environmental security;
      (c)   operations security;
      (d)  communication security;
      (e)   information security incident management; and
       (f)   information security aspects of business continuity management.

2.   For online transactions and services, a financial institution has implemented the
      following:
      (a)  adequate  measures  to  authenticate  customer  identity  and  ensure
           legitimate transaction authorisation by the customer, including—
                (i)   measures to prevent session takeover or man-in-the-middle attacks;
                 (ii)   internal controls must be in place to prevent compromise of relevant
                 internal systems /application /database;
                 (iii)  where appropriate, apply  multi-level  authentication, out  of band
                protocol and real-time verification;
              (iv)  secure session handling functions and authentication databases; and
            (v)  ensure   strong  password  and   cryptographic  implementation
               (recognised algorithm with reasonable key strength).

      (b)  adequate measures for transaction authentication that promotes non-
          repudiation and establishes accountability—
                (i)   mechanism exists to ensure proof of origin, content as well as the
                  integrity of the message;
                 (ii)  chosen channel to deliver transaction is secure;

Issued on: 19 June 2020
Risk Management in Technology                                   50 of 50

                 (iii)  mechanism exists to alert the user on certain type of transactions for
                 further authentication; and
              (iv)  establish  mutual  authentication  or  appropriate  use  of  digital
                   certification.

      (c)  segregation of duties and access control privilege for systems, databases
        and applications—
                (i)   implement dual control where applicable;
                 (ii)   controls exist to detect and prevent unauthorised access to relevant
               resources/devices;
                 (iii)  authorisation database should be tamper-resistant; and
              (iv)  periodic review of privileged users.

      (d)  adequate  measures  to  protect  data  integrity  of  transactions  and
           information:
                (i)   implementation of end-to-end encryption for external communication;
                 (ii)   implementation of multi-layer network security and devices;
                 (iii)  absence of single point of failures in network architecture;
              (iv)  conduct network security assessment/penetration  test  to  identify
                  vulnerabilities;
            (v)   establish audit trail capabilities;
              (vi)  preserve the confidentiality of information;
              (vii) use of stronger authentication for higher risk transactions; and
               (viii) timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of the
               nature of the transaction.

      (e)  adequate measures to mitigate associated risks of using electronic mobile
          devices to perform online transactions, which shall include the following:
                (i)   application is running on secure mobile Operating System versions;
                 (ii)   application is not running on compromised devices;
                 (iii)  conduct penetration test to identify and rectify potential vulnerability;
              (iv)  secure end-to-end communication between the device and host;
            (v)   sensitive information is not stored on mobile devices;
              (vi)  user is notified of successful transactions;
              (vii) user is notified of suspicious transactions;
               (viii) continuous  monitoring  and  takedown  of  fake  applications  in
                application distribution platforms;
              (ix)  controls over the uploading of application to application distribution
                platforms;
            (x)  a unique code is generated per transaction; and
              (xi)  timely expiry of the transaction code.





Issued on: 19 June 2020
